Chapter 14
===================
“Please, sir,” he said, “I have the cab downstairs.”

“Good boy,” said Holmes. “Why don’t you introduce these handcuffs (手铐) at Scotland Yard?”

he continued, taking a pair of steel handcuffs (手铐) from a drawer. “

See how beautifully the spring works. They fasten in a second.”

“The old handcuffs (手铐) are good enough,” remarked Lestrade, “if we can only find the man to put them on.”

“Very good, very good,” said Holmes, smiling.

“The cabman (马车夫) may as well help me with my boxes. Just ask him to come up, Wiggins.”

Holmes was busily packing his things when the cabman (马车夫) entered the room.

“Just give me a help with this buckle (皮带扣) , cabman (马车夫) ,” he said, kneeling over his task, and never turning his head.

The fellow came forward and put down his hands to help.

At that moment there was a sharp sound of metal, and Sherlock Holmes sprang to his feet again.

“Gentlemen,” he cried, with flashing eyes,

“let me introduce you to Mr. Jefferson Hope, the murderer of Enoch Drebber and of Joseph Stangerson.”

The whole thing occurred in a moment—so quickly that I had no time to realize it.

I still remember that instant—Holmes’ triumphant expression,

and the cabman (马车夫) ’s dazed (茫然的) , savage face as he glared at the glittering handcuffs (手铐) which had appeared as if by magic upon his wrists.

Then, with a roar of fury, the prisoner freed himself from Holmes’ grasp, and threw himself through the window.

Wood and glass gave way before him. But before he got quite through, Gregson, Lestrade, and Holmes sprang upon him like so many dogs.

He was dragged back into the room, and then started a great conflict.

He was so powerful and so fierce that the four of us were shaken off again and again.

It was not until Lestrade succeeded in getting the man’s hand inside his scarf and choked him that we made him realize that his struggles were of no use.

Even then we felt no security until we had tied his feet as well as his hands.

Then we rose to our feet out of breath.


“We have his cab,” said Sherlock Holmes. “It will be useful to take him to Scotland Yard. And now, gentlemen,”

he continued, with a pleasant smile, “we have reached the end of our little mystery.

You are very welcome to put any questions that you like to me now, and there is no danger that I will refuse to answer them.”

A man named John Ferrier and his daughter, Lucy Ferrier, were making a long journey across the Sierra Nevada desert in the United States.

They found themselves without water or food and about to die.

Before the creatures of the desert could get to them, a traveling group of Mormons found them, led by their famous leader, Brigham Young.

The Mormons agreed to rescue them, but only if they also agreed to become Mormons.

After leading them to safety, the Mormons told them, “You shall remain here.

In a few days you will have recovered from your exhaustions.

Remember that now and forever you are of our religion. Brigham Young has said it, and he speaks with the voice of God.”

Finally they arrived in Utah, which Young told them was the Promised Land.

Young proved himself to be an expert manager as well as a firm chief.

In the country there was draining, planting and clearing, until the next summer saw the whole country golden with the wheat crop.

Everything thrived in the strange settlement.

Ferrier, having recovered from his hardships, distinguished himself as a useful guide and a hunter, and was given a good farm.

He built himself a house in which Lucy grew up, and helped her father in all his activities.

So the bud bloomed into a flower: it was not the father, however, who first learned that the child had developed into the woman.

One morning she was riding her horse along a road when she ran into a herd of cattle, of which one suddenly turned and attacked her.

She would have fallen and been killed, if a stranger had not caught her wildly-moving horse and led it calmly away.

“You’re not hurt, I hope, miss,” said her savior (救星) .

She looked up at his dark, fierce face, and laughed.

“I’m frightened,” she said, “whoever would have thought that my horse would have been so scared by a lot of cows?”

“Thank God you kept your seat,” the other said earnestly.

He was a tall, savage-looking young fellow, seated on a powerful brown horse,

and clothed in the rough dress of a hunter, with a long rifle over his shoulders.

“I guess you are the daughter of John Ferrier,” he remarked, “I saw you ride down from his house.

When you see him, ask him if he remembers the Jefferson Hopes of St. Louis.

If he’s the same Ferrier, my father and he were pretty friendly.”

“Hadn’t you better come and ask yourself?” she asked.

The young fellow seemed pleased at the suggestion. “I’ll do that,” he said.

“He has a good deal to thank you for, and so have I,” she answered. “You must come and see us. I must leave now—Good-bye!”

“Good-bye,” he answered, raising his hat, and bending over her little hand.


He called on John Ferrier that night, and many times again, until his face was a familiar one at the farm-house.

He soon became a favorite with the old farmer. Lucy’s red-faced cheeks and her bright, happy eyes showed clearly that she was in love.

Her father may not have noticed, but her visitor certainly did.

Jefferson Hope had to leave for two months on urgent business.

He asked Lucy to wait for him, which she agreed to do, and promised to marry her on his return.

Then she walked back into the house, the happiest girl in all Utah.

One fine morning, John Ferrier was about to set out to his wheat fields, when he heard the click of the latch (门闩) on his gate,

and, looking through the window, saw a middle-aged man coming up the path.

His heart jumped to his mouth, for this was none other than the great Brigham Young himself.

“Brother Ferrier,” Young said, taking a seat, and eyeing the farmer, “the true believers have been good friends to you.

We picked you up when you were starving in the desert; we shared our food with you,

led you safe to the Chosen Valley, gave you a good share of land, and allowed you to become rich under our protection. Is not this so?”

“It is so,” answered John Ferrier.

“Good then, it is of your daughter that I would speak to you,” said the leader of the Mormons.

“There are rumors that she is to marry a non-Mormon.

But you know the law: ‘Let every girl of the true faith marry one of the chosen; for if she marries a Gentile, she commits a serious sin.’ ”

John Ferrier made no answer, but he played nervously with his riding-whip.

“We will give your daughter a choice. Stangerson has a son, and Drebber has a son,

and either of them would gladly welcome your daughter to their house.

Let her choose between them.

They are young and rich, and of the true faith. What do you say to that?”

Ferrier remained silent for some little time.

“You will give us time,” he said at last. “My daughter is very young —she is not old enough to marry.”

“She will have a month to choose,” said Young, rising from his seat. “At the end of that time she should give her answer.”