Chapter 10
========================
“Every effort should be made to find the secretary, Stangerson, and to find out some details of the habits of the dead man.

A great step had been gained by the discovery of the address of the house at which he had stayed—

a result which was entirely due to efforts and energy of Mr. Gregson of Scotland Yard.”

Sherlock Holmes and I read this notice from The Daily News together at breakfast, and it appeared to afford him considerable enjoyment.

“Whatever happened, Lestrade and Gregson will be sure to get some credit.”

“That depends on how it turns out.”

“Oh, it doesn’t matter in the least.

If the man is caught, it will be because of their efforts; if he escapes, the detectives will also get praise for trying.

It’s heads I win and tails you lose.

Whatever they do, they will have followers.

They say that ‘a stupid person can always find an even more stupid person to admire him.’ ”

“What on earth is this?” I cried,

for at this moment there was a sound of many steps in the hall and on the stairs, accompanied by the disgusted voice of our landlady (房东太太) .

“It’s the Baker Street division of the detective police force,” said my companion,

and as he spoke, there rushed into the room half a dozen of the dirtiest street Arabs that I had ever put eyes on.

“Attention!” cried Holmes, in a sharp tone, and the six dirty little Arabs stood in a line.

“In future you should send up Wiggins alone to report, and the rest must wait in the street. Have you found it, Wigins?”

“No, sir, we haven’t,” said one of the youths.

“I hardly expected you would.

You must continue until you do.

Here are your wages.” He handed each of them a coin.

“Now, off you go, and come back with a better report next time.”

He waved his hand, and they ran away downstairs like so many rats, and we heard their loud voices next moment in the street.

“Those children are more useful than all the detectives put together,” Holmes remarked.

“The mere sight of an official-looking person closes men’s lips.

These children, however, go everywhere and hear everything. They are smart, too, and all you need is to organize them.”

“Is it on this Brixton case that you are employing them?” I asked.

“Yes. There is more I want to learn.

It is merely a matter of time.

Hello! We are going to hear some news now! Here is Gregson coming down the road with happiness written upon every feature of his face.

Bound for us, I know. Yes, he is stopping. There he is!”

There was a violent ring of the bell, and in a few seconds the detective came up the stairs, three steps at a time, and burst into our sitting-room.

“My dear fellow,” he cried, “congratulate me! I have made the whole thing as clear as day.”

A shade of anxiety seemed to cross my companion’s face.

“Do you mean that you are on the right track?” he asked.

“The right track! Oh, sir, we have the man under lock and key.”

“And his name is?”

“Arthur Charpentier, sub-lieutenant in Her Majesty’s navy,” cried Gregson, rubbing his fat hands and puffing out his chest.

Sherlock Holmes gave a sigh of relief, and relaxed into a smile.

“Take a seat, and try one of these cigars,” he said.

“We are anxious to know how you managed it.

Will you have some whiskey (威士忌) and water? Let us hear how you arrived at this most satisfying result.” said Holmes.

“The fun of it is,” the officer cried, “that that fool Lestrade, who thinks himself so smart, has gone off upon the wrong track altogether.

He is after the secretary Stangerson, who had no more to do with the crime than an unborn baby.

I have no doubt that he has caught him by this time.”

The idea excited Gregson so much that he laughed until he started coughing.

“And how did you get your clue?”

“Ah, I’ll tell you all about it.

The first difficulty which we had to struggle with was finding out this American’s previous history.

Some people would have waited until their advertisements were answered, or until someone came forward and gave information.

That is not Tobias Gregson’s way of going to work.

You remember the hat beside the dead man?”

“Yes,” said Holmes, “by John Underwood and Sons, 129, Camberwell Road.”

“I had no idea that you noticed that,” Gregson said, looking quite upset. “Have you been there?”

“No.”

“Ha!” cried Gregson, in a relieved voice, “you should never neglect a chance, however small it may seem.”

“To a great mind, nothing is little,” remarked Holmes.

“Well, I went to Underwood, and asked him if he had sold a hat of that size and description.

He looked over his books, and found it at once.

He had sold the hat to a Mr. Drebber, living at Charpentier’s Boarding Establishment, Torquay Terrace. Thus I got at his address.”

“Smart—very smart!” said Sherlock Holmes.

“I next called upon Madame Charpentier,” continued the detective. “

I found her very pale and distressed.

Her daughter was in the room, too—a very fine girl she is, too.

She was looking red about the eyes and her lips shook as I spoke to her.

That didn’t escape my notice.

I sensed that something was wrong. You know the feeling, Mr. Sherlock Holmes, when you come upon the right scent—a kind of excitement in your nerves.

“ ‘Have you heard of the mysterious death of your late tenant Mr. Enoch J. Drebber, of Cleveland?’ I asked.

“The mother nodded. She didn’t seem able to get out a word.

The daughter burst into tears. I felt more than ever that these people knew something of the matter.

“ ‘When did Mr. Drebber leave your house for the train?’ I asked.

“ ‘At eight o’clock,’ the mother said. ‘His secretary, Mr. Stangerson, said that there were two trains—one at 9.15 and one at 11.

He was to catch the first.’

“ ‘And was that the last time you saw him?’

“A terrible change came over the woman’s face as I asked the question.

It was some seconds before she could get out the single word ‘Yes’—and when it did come, it was in a deep unnatural tone.