Chapter 12
=====================
The news with which Lestrade greeted us was so important and so unexpected that we were all astonished.

Gregson sprang out of his chair and spilled his whiskey (威士忌) and water.

I stared in silence at Sherlock Holmes, whose lips were closed and eyebrows (眉毛) were drawn down over his eyes.

“Stangerson too!” he said. “The plot thickens.”

“It was quite thick enough before,” said Lestrade, taking a chair. “I seem to have dropped into a sort of council of war.”

“Are you—are you sure of this piece of news?” said Gregson.

“I have just come from his room,” said Lestrade. “I was the first to discover what had happened.”

“We have been hearing Gregson’s view of the matter,” Holmes said.

“Would you mind letting us know what you have seen and done?”

“I have no objection,” Lestrade answered, as he seated.

“I confess that I was of the opinion that Stangerson was concerned in the death of Drebber.

This fresh development has shown me that I was completely mistaken.

Full of the one idea, I set myself to find out what had become of the Secretary.

They had been seen together at Euston Station about half-past eight on the evening of the third.

At two in the morning Drebber was found in the Brixton Road.

The question which faced me was to find out what Stangerson had been doing between 8.30 and the time of the crime, and what had happened to him afterwards.

I telegraphed to Liverpool, giving a description of the man, and warning them to keep a watch upon the American boats.

I then set to work calling upon all the hotels and lodging-houses in the area of Euston.

You see, I reasoned that if Drebber and his companion had become separated, the natural plan for the latter would be to find somewhere to stay in the area for the night, and then to go to the station again next morning.”

“They would be likely to agree on some meeting-place before,” remarked Holmes.

“So they did. I spent the whole of yesterday evening in making requests for information, entirely without success.

This morning I began very early, and at eight o’clock I reached Halliday’s Private Hotel, in Little George Street.

On my question as to whether a Mr. Stangerson was living there, they at once gave me a positive answer.

“ ‘No doubt you are the gentleman whom he was expecting,’ they said. ‘He has been waiting for a gentleman for two days.’

“ ‘Where is he now?’ I asked.

“ ‘He is upstairs in bed. He wished to be called at nine.’

“ ‘I will go up and see him at once,’ I said.

“It seemed to me that my sudden appearance might shake Stangerson’s nerves and lead him to say something carelessly.

The worker offered to show me the room. It was on the second floor, and there was a small corridor leading up to it.

The worker showed me the door, and was about to go downstairs again when I saw something that made me feel sick.

From under the door there was a little red line of blood,

which had flowed across the passage and formed a little pool along the skirting at the other side.

I gave a cry, which brought the worker back.

He nearly fainted when he saw it.

The door was locked on the inside, but we put our shoulders to it, and pushed it in.

The window of the room was open, and beside the window, lay the body of a man in his nightwear (睡衣) .

He was quite dead, and had been for some time, for his legs and arms were rigid and cold.

When we turned him over, the worker recognized him at once as being the same gentleman who had purchased the room under the name of Joseph Stangerson.

The cause of death was a deep stab in the left side, which must have wounded the heart.

And now comes the strangest part of the affair.

What do you suppose was above the murdered man?”

“The word RACHE, written in letters of blood,” Holmes said.

“That was it,” said Lestrade, in a shocked voice, and we were all silent for a while.


“The man was seen,” continued Lestrade.

“A milk boy happened to walk down the lane which leads to the back of the hotel.

He noticed that a ladder, which usually lay there, was raised against one of the windows of the second floor.

The window was wide open. After passing, he looked back and saw a man climbing down the ladder.

He came down so quietly and openly that the boy thought he was a worker in the hotel.

He took no particular notice of him, beyond thinking in his own mind that it was early for him to be at work.

He has an impression that the man was tall, had a reddish face, and was dressed in a long, brown coat.

He must have stayed in the room some little time after the murder, for we found blood-stained water in the basin, where he had washed his hands, and marks on the sheets where he had deliberately wiped his knife.”

I glanced at Holmes on hearing the description of the murderer, which matched so exactly with his own description.

There was, however, no trace (迹象) of happiness or satisfaction upon his face.

“Did you find nothing in the room which could give a clue to the murderer?” he asked.

“Nothing. Stangerson had Drebber’s wallet in his pocket, but it seems that this was usual, as he did all the paying.

There was eighty pounds in it, but nothing had been taken. Whatever the motives of these extraordinary crimes, robbery is certainly not one of them.

There were no papers or letters in the murdered man’s pocket, except a single telegram, dated from Cleveland about a month ago,

and containing the words, ‘J. H. is in Europe.’ There was no name added to this message.”

“And there was nothing else?” Holmes asked.

“Nothing of any importance.

The novel that the man had been reading was lying on the bed, and his pipe was on a chair beside him.

There was a glass of water on the table, and on the window-sill a small box containing a couple of pills.”

Sherlock Holmes sprang from his chair with a cry of delight.

“The last link,” he cried. “My case is complete.”