Chapter 16
===================
Our prisoner’s furious resistance did not apparently indicate any hatred towards ourselves,

for on finding himself powerless, he smiled in a friendly manner.

“If there’s a vacant place for a chief of the police, I think you are the man for it,” he said, gazing with obvious admiration at my roommate.

After arriving at the police station, an inspector joined us in the interview.

“I’ve got a good deal to say,” Jefferson said slowly. “I want to tell you gentlemen all about it.”

“Hadn’t you better save that for your trial?” asked the inspector.

“I may never be tried,” he answered. “You needn’t look surprised. It isn’t suicide I am thinking of. Are you a Doctor?”

He turned his fierce dark eyes upon me as he asked this last question.

“Yes. I am,” I answered.

“Then put your hand here,” he said, with a smile, pointing with his handcuffed wrists towards his chest.

I did so, and became at once conscious of what was going on inside.

“Oh,” I cried, “you have an aortic (动脉的) aneurysm!”

“That’s what they call it,” he said.

The inspector and the two detectives had a hurried discussion about allowing him to tell his story.

“Do you consider, Doctor, that there is any immediate danger?” the former asked.

“Most certainly there is,” I answered.

“In that case it is clearly our duty, in the interests of justice, to take his statement,” said the inspector.

“I’ll sit down, with your permission,” the prisoner said, suiting the action to the word.

“Every word I say is the absolute truth, and how you use it is a matter of no consequence to me.”

With these words, Jefferson Hope leaned back in his chair and began the following remarkable statement.

“It doesn’t much matter to you why I hated these men,” he said,

“it’s enough that they were guilty of the death of two human beings—a father and a daughter.

Therefore, they had to pay for it with their own lives.

“They were rich and I was poor, so that it was no easy matter for me to follow them.

When I got to London, my pockets were about empty, and I found that I must do something to earn my living.

Driving and riding are as natural to me as walking, so I applied at a cab company office, and soon got employment.

“It was some time before I found out where my two gentlemen were living.

I asked and asked until at last I found them by chance. They were at a boarding-house at Camberwell.

When once I found them out, I knew that I had them at my mercy.

I had grown my beard, and there was no chance of their recognizing me.

I was determined that they should not escape me again.

“They were very near doing it, even so.

They must have thought that there was some chance of their being followed, for they would never go out alone, and never go out after nightfall (傍晚) .

During two weeks I drove behind them every day, and never once saw them separate.

“At last, one evening I was driving up and down the street Torquay Terrace in which they stayed, when I saw a cab drive up to their door.

Presently some luggage was brought out, and after a time Drebber and Stangerson followed it, and drove off.

I drove my cab and kept within sight of them.

At Euston Station, they got out, and I followed them on to the platform.

I heard them ask for the Liverpool train, and the guard answer that one had just gone and there would not be another for some hours.

Stangerson seemed to be upset at that, but Drebber was rather pleased.

I got so close to them in the crowd that I could hear every word they said.

Drebber said that he had a little business of his own to take care of, and that if Stangerson would wait for him, he would soon return.

Then Stangerson said that if Drebber missed the last train, Drebber could find him at Halliday’s Private Hotel.

Drebber answered that he would be back on the platform before eleven, and made his way out of the station.

“The moment for which I had waited so long had at last come.

I had my enemies within my power.

Some days ago, a gentleman who had been looking at some houses in the Brixton Road had dropped the key of one of them in my cab.

So I had taken the chance to copy it.

By means of this I had access to one spot in this great city where I was free from interruption.

How to get Drebber to that house was the difficult problem which I had now to solve.

“He walked down the road and went into one or two liquor shops, staying for nearly half-an-hour in them.

When he came out, he was pretty drunk. There was a cab just in front of me, and he called it.

I followed it. To my surprise, we found ourselves back in the Terrace where he had stayed.

I could not imagine what his intention was in returning there, but I went on and stopped my cab a hundred yards or so from the house.

He entered it, and his cab drove away.

“Well, I waited for a quarter of an hour when suddenly there came a noise like people struggling inside the house.

Next moment the door was opened and two men appeared, one of whom was Drebber, and the other was a young chap.

This fellow had Drebber by the collar, and when they came to the top of the steps, he pushed him and gave a kick which sent Drebber half across the road.

‘You bastard (混蛋) ,’ the young man cried, shaking his stick at him, ‘I’ll beat you if you insult an honest girl again!’

So Drebber ran away down the road as fast as he could.

He ran as far as the corner, and saw my cab, he called me and jumped in.

‘Drive me to Halliday’s Private Hotel,’ said he.

“When I had him inside my cab, my heart jumped so quickly with joy that I feared at this last moment my aneurysm might burst.

When I was troubled how to get him to the empty house, he solved the problem for me.

He ordered me to pull up outside a liquor shop.

He went in, saying that I should wait for him.

When he came out, he was so drunk that I knew the game was in my own hands.