Chapter 11
=====================
“There was silence for a moment, and then the daughter spoke in a calm clear voice.

“ ‘No good can ever come of lies, mother,’ she said.

‘Let us be honest with this gentleman. We did see Mr. Drebber again.’

“ ‘God forgive you!’ cried Madame Charpentier, throwing up her hands and sinking back in her chair.

‘You have murdered your brother.’

“ ‘Arthur would rather that we spoke the truth,’ the girl answered firmly.

“ ‘You had best tell me all about it now,’ I said. ‘Besides, you do not know how much we know of it.’

“ ‘Alice!’ cried her mother, and then, turning to me, ‘I will tell you everything, sir.

Do not think that my fear comes from me thinking that he has committed the crime.

He is utterly innocent of it. My fear is, however, that in your eyes and in the eyes of others he may appear to be under suspicion.

However, that is surely impossible.

His high character, his profession, his whole life history would all make it impossible.’

“ ‘Your best plan is to tell me everything that happened,’ I answered. ‘If your son is innocent, he will be none the worse.’

“ ‘Mr. Drebber has been with us for nearly three weeks.

He and his secretary, Mr. Stangerson, had been travelling on the Continent.

I noticed a “Copenhagen” label upon each of their trunks, showing that that had been their last stopping place.

Stangerson was a quiet, shy man, but his employer was very different.

He was rude and cruel.

Even on the night of his arrival, he got very drunk.

After noon, he could hardly ever be said to be sober.

His behavior towards the maid-servants was horribly rude.

Worst of all, he quickly assumed the same attitude towards my daughter and spoke to her in an insulting way.

On one occasion he actually grabbed her in his arms and embraced her—

an outrage which caused his own secretary to rebuke (斥责) him for his disgusting conduct.’

“ ‘But why did you stand all this,’ I asked. ‘I suppose that you can get rid of your tenants when you wish.’

“Mrs. Charpentier blushed. ‘How I wish I had! But I was tempted.

They were paying a pound a day each—fourteen pounds a week, and this is the slack season.

I am a widow, and my boy in the Navy has cost me a lot of money.

I didn’t want to lose the income.

However, insulting my daughter was too much, and I asked him to leave on account of it.

That was the reason for his going.’

“ ‘Well?’

“ ‘My heart grew light when I saw him drive away.

My son is on leave just now, but I did not tell him anything of all this, for his temper is violent, and he is fond of his sister.

When I closed the door behind them, a load seemed to be lifted from my mind.

But, in less than an hour, there was a ring at the bell, and I learned that Mr. Drebber had returned.

He was very excited, and drunk.

He forced his way into the room, where I was sitting with my daughter, and made some remark about having missed his train.

He then turned to Alice, and proposed to her that she should run away with him.

“You are old enough,” he said, “and there is no law to stop you. I have enough money to spare.

Never mind the old lady here, but come along with me now. You will live like a princess.”

Poor Alice was so frightened that she ran away from him, but he caught her by the wrist and tried to pull her towards the door.

I shouted, and at that moment my son Arthur came into the room.

I do not know what happened then. I was too scared to raise my head.

When I did look up, I saw Arthur standing in the doorway laughing, with a stick in his hand.

“I don’t think that fellow will trouble us again,” he said. “I will just go after him and see what he does with himself.”

With those words he took his hat and started off down the street.

The next morning we heard of Mr. Drebber’s mysterious death.’ ”

“It’s quite exciting,” said Sherlock Holmes, with a yawn. “What happened next?”

“Of course after that there was nothing more to be done.

I found out where Lieutenant Charpentier was, took two officers with me, and arrested him.

When I touched him on the shoulder and told him to come quietly with us, he answered us boldly,

‘I suppose you are arresting me for being concerned in the death of Drebber,’ he said.

We had said nothing to him about it, so that his referring to it had a most suspicious aspect.”

“Very,” said Holmes.

“He still carried the heavy stick which his mother said he had when he followed Drebber.

It was a thick, heavy oak (橡木) stick.”

“What is your theory, then?”

“Well, my theory is that he followed Drebber as far as the Brixton Road.

There, a fresh argument started between them.

Drebber was then hit by the stick, in the area of the stomach, which killed him without leaving any mark.

The night was so wet that no one was around, so Charpentier dragged the body of his victim into the empty house.

As to the candle, and the blood, and the writing on the wall, and the ring, they may all be tricks to throw the police on to the wrong scent.”

“Well done!” said Holmes in an encouraging voice. “Really, Gregson, you are getting along.”

“I flatter myself that I have managed it rather cleverly,” the detective answered proudly.

“The young man gave a statement, in which he said that after following Drebber for some time, Drebber took a cab in order to get away from him.

On his way home, he met an old friend, and took a long walk with him.

On being asked where this old friend lived, he was unable to give any satisfactory reply.

I think the whole case fits together well. What pleases me is to think of Lestrade, who had started off upon the wrong scent.

I am afraid he won’t be able to work it out. Oh, here’s the very man himself!”

It was indeed Lestrade, who had climbed the stairs while we were talking, and who now entered the room.

However, the assurance and cheerfulness which generally marked his conduct and the clothes he wore were gone.

His face was disturbed and troubled, while his clothes were untidy.

He had evidently come with the intention of consulting with Sherlock Holmes, so, on seeing his colleague, he appeared to be embarrassed.

He stood in the center of the room, playing nervously with his hat and uncertain what to do.

“This is a most extraordinary case,” he said at last—“an affair completely beyond my understanding.”

“Ah, you find it so, Mr. Lestrade!” cried Gregson. “I thought you would come to that conclusion.

Have you managed to find the Secretary, Mr. Joseph Stangerson?”

“The Secretary, Mr. Joseph Stangerson,” said Lestrade, “was murdered at Halliday’s Private Hotel about six o’clock this morning.”