Chapter 13
===================
The two detectives stared at him in surprise.

“I have now in my hands,” my companion said, confidently,

“all the links which have formed such a tangle up to now.

There are, of course, details to be filled in, but I am certain of all the main facts,

from the time that Drebber parted from Stangerson at the station, up to the discovery of the body of the latter.

I feel like I had seen them with my own eyes, from the time that Drebber parted from Stangerson at the station, up to the discovery of the body.

I will give you a proof of my knowledge.

Could you lay your hand upon those pills?”

“I have them,” said Lestrade, showing a small white box,

“I took them and the wallet and the telegram in order to have them put in a place of safety at the Police Station.

It was only by chance that I took these pills, for I must say that I do not give any importance to them.”

“Give them here,” said Holmes. “Now, Doctor,” turning to me, “are those ordinary pills?”

They certainly were not.

They were of a grey color, small, round, and almost transparent against the light.

“From their lightness and transparency (透明) , I should imagine that they are soluble in water,” I remarked.

“Precisely so,” answered Holmes. “Now would you mind going down and fetching that poor little dog which has been ill so long,

and which the landlady (房东太太) wanted you to put out of its pain yesterday.”

I went downstairs and carried the dog upstairs in my arms.

Its hard breathing and grey eye showed that it was not far from its end.

I placed it upon a pillow on the carpet.

“I will now cut one of these pills in two,” said Holmes, and drawing a knife he suited the action to the word.

“One half we return into the box for future purposes.

The other half I will place in this wine glass, in which is some water.

You see that Dr. Watson is right and that it readily dissolves.”

“This may be very interesting,” said Lestrade, “However, I cannot see what it has to do with the death of Mr. Joseph Stangerson.”

“Patience, my friend, patience! You will find in time that it has everything to do with it.

I will now add a little milk to make the mixture tasty, and on giving it to the dog we find that he drinks it up readily enough.”

As he spoke he put the water of the wine glass into a little dish and placed it in front of the dog, who quickly licked it dry.

Sherlock Holmes’ serious manner had so far convinced us that we all sat in silence, watching the animal closely, and expecting some amazing effect.

None such appeared, however.

The dog continued to lie stretched upon the pillow, breathing with difficulty.

Holmes had taken out his watch, and as minute followed minute without result, an expression of disappointment appeared upon his face.

He bit his lip, tapped his fingers upon the table, and showed every other sign of impatience (不耐烦) .

So great was his emotion that I felt sorry for him, while the two detectives smiled.

“It can’t be a coincidence,” he cried, at last springing from his chair and pacing wildly up and down the room,

“it is impossible that it should be a mere chance.

The very pills which I suspected, in the case of Drebber, are actually found after the death of Stangerson.

And yet they have no effect.

What can it mean? Surely my whole chain of reasoning cannot have been false.

It is impossible! And yet this dog is none the worse. Ah, I have it! I have it!”

With a perfect cry of delight he rushed to the box, cut the other pill in two, dissolved it, added milk, and presented it to the dog.

The unfortunate creature’s tongue seemed hardly to have been tasted it before it gave a sudden shake in every part of its body,

and lay as rigid and lifeless as if it had been struck by lightning.

Sherlock Holmes drew a long breath, and wiped the sweat from his forehead.

“I should have more faith,” he said, “I ought to know by this time that when a fact goes against what I know, there must be some other explanation.

Of the two pills in that box, one was of the most deadly poison, and the other was entirely harmless.

I ought to have known that before I saw the box at all.”

“All this seems strange to you,” continued Holmes,

“because you failed at the beginning of the inquiry to grasp the importance of the single real clue which was presented to you.

I had the good fortune to take hold of that, and everything which has happened since then has served to confirm my original assumption.

Hence (因此) things, which have confused you and made the case more mysterious, have served to help me confirm my conclusions.

It is a mistake to confuse strangeness with mystery.

The most usual crime is often the most mysterious because it presents no new or special features from which deductions (推理) may be drawn.

This murder would have been more difficult to solve if the body of the victim had been simply found lying in the roadway.

These strange details, far from making the case more difficult, have really had the effect of making it less so.”

Mr. Gregson, who had listened to this talk with considerable impatience (不耐烦) , could be silent no longer.

“Look here, Mr. Sherlock Holmes,” he said,

“we are all ready to acknowledge that you are a smart man, and that you have your own methods of working.

But we want something more than mere theory and teaching now.

It is a case of catching the man.

I thought I had solved the case, but it seems I was wrong.

Young Charpentier could not have been involved in this second affair.

Lestrade went after his man, Stangerson, and it appears that he was wrong too.

You have thrown out hints here, and hints there, and seem to know more than we do,

but the time has come when we feel that we have a right to ask you to tell us clearly how much you do know of the business.

Can you name the man who did it?”

“I cannot help feeling that Gregson is right, sir,” remarked Lestrade.

“We have both tried, and we have both failed.

You have remarked more than once since I have been in the room that you had all the evidence which you require.

Surely you will not hold it back any longer.”

“Any delay in arresting the murderer,” I said, “might give him time to commit some fresh murders.”

“There will be no more murders,” Holmes said at last.

“You can forget about that idea. You have asked me if I know the name of the murderer.

I do. However, the mere knowing of his name is a small thing compared with the power of laying our hands upon him.

This I expect very shortly to do.

I have good hopes of managing it through my own arrangements.

But it is a thing which needs delicate handling, for we have a desperate man to deal with.

The murderer is supported, as I have had occasion to prove, by another who is as clever as himself.

As long as this man has no idea that anyone has a clue, there is some chance of arresting him.

But if he had the slightest suspicion, he would change his name, and disappear in an instant among the four million people of this great city.

Without meaning to hurt either of your feelings,

I am bound to say that I consider these men to be too intelligent and capable for the official force to handle,

and that is why I have not asked your assistance.

If I fail I will, of course, take all the blame due to my mistake.

At present I am ready to promise that the moment that I can speak with you without risking my own plans, I will do so.”

No one else had time to speak before there was a tap at the door, and the spokesman of the street Arabs, young Wiggins, came into the house.