Chapter 18
==================
On the very night after Jefferson Hope’s arrest, the aneurysm burst, and he was found in the morning on the floor of the cell.

Holmes and I were now at home resting when we heard the news. We were speaking about the case and everything that had happened.

“I confess,” said I, “I still don’t know how you solved this case.”

“I hardly expected that you would. Let me see if I can make it clearer and show you the different steps in my reasoning.

To begin at the beginning.

I approached the house, as you know, on foot, and with my mind entirely free from all impressions.

I naturally began by examining the road, and there, as I have already explained to you, I saw clearly the marks of a cab.

I confirmed by inquiry that the marks must have been there during the night.

I was certain that it was a cab from a cab company and not a private cab, by the narrow tracks of the wheels.”

“This was the first point gained.

I then walked slowly down the garden path, which happened to be a clay soil, peculiarly suitable for taking impressions.

To my trained eyes, every mark upon its surface had a meaning.

There is no branch of detective science which is so important and so much neglected as the art of tracing (追踪) footsteps.

I saw the heavy footsteps of the officers, but also I saw the track of the two men who had first passed through the garden.

It was easy to tell that they had been before the others, because in places their footprints had been entirely covered by the others coming after them.

In this way, my second link was formed, which told me that the visitors were two in number.

One visitor was remarkable for his height (as I deduced from the length of his steps) ,

and the other was well-dressed, as was shown by the small and elegant impression left by his boots.

“On entering the house, this last assumption was confirmed.

My well-booted man lay before me.

Then the tall one had done the murder.

There was no wound upon the dead man’s body, but the expression upon his face assured me that he had learned of his fate before it came upon him.

Men who die from heart disease, or any sudden natural cause, would not show fear upon their faces.

Having smelled the dead man’s lips, I sensed a slightly sour smell, and I came to the conclusion that he had had poison forced upon him.

Again, I deduced that it had been forced upon him from the hatred and fear expressed upon his face.

“And now came the great question as to the reason why.

Robbery had not been the object of the murder, for nothing was taken.

Was it politics, then, or was it a woman?

That was the question which confronted me. Political murderers would leave as soon as possible.

On the contrary, this murder had been done most deliberately, and the murderer had left his tracks all over the room,

which showed that he had been there for a long time.

It must have been a private reason, and not a political one.

When the word was discovered upon the wall, I was even surer of my opinion.

When the ring was found, it settled the question.

Clearly the murderer had used it to remind his victim of some dead or absent woman.

“I then proceeded to make a careful examination of the room, which confirmed me in my opinion as to the murderer’s height,

and gave me the additional details as to the Trichinopoly cigar and the length of his nails.

Since there were no signs of a struggle,

I had already come to the conclusion that the blood which covered the floor had burst from the murdere’s nose in his excitement.

It is seldom that any man, unless he is very full-blooded, breaks out in this way through emotion,

so I assumed that the criminal was probably a strong man with a reddish face.

Events proved that I had judged correctly.

“Having left the house, I proceeded to do what Gregson had neglected.

I contacted the head of the police at Cleveland, limiting my questions to the circumstances connected with the marriage of Enoch Drebber.

The answer told me that Drebber had already applied for protection against an old enemy in love, named Jefferson Hope,

and that this same Hope was at present in Europe.

I knew now that I held the clue to the mystery in my hand, and all that remained was to catch the murderer.

“I had already determined in my own mind that the man who had walked into the house with Drebber was none other than the man who had driven the cab.

The marks in the road showed me that the horse had wandered on in a way which would have been impossible if there was anyone in charge of it.

Then where could the driver be? He must be inside the house.

Lastly, if one man wished to follow another through London, what better means could he adopt than to become a cab driver?

All these considerations led me to the conclusion that Jefferson Hope was to be found among the cab drivers of the London.

“If he had been one, there was no reason to believe that he had stopped.

On the contrary, from his point of view, any sudden chance would be likely to draw attention to himself.

He would continue to do his job for a time at least.

There was no reason to suppose that he was going under an assumed name.

Why should he change his name in a country where no one knew his original one?

I therefore organized my Street Arab detective corps, and sent them to every cab company in London.

How well they succeeded, and how quickly I took advantage of it, you know.

The murder of Stangerson was an incident which was entirely unexpected, but which could hardly have been prevented.

Through it, I came into possession of the pills.

You see the whole thing is a chain of logical sequences without a break or a flaw.”

“It is wonderful!” I cried. “Your merits should be publicly recognized.”

“See here!” he continued, handing a paper over to me, “look at this!”

I read, “...It is an open secret that the credit of this smart arrest belongs entirely to the well-known Scotland Yard officials,

Mr. Lestrade and Mr. Gregson. The man was arrested in the rooms of a man named Mr. Sherlock Holmes.

Mr. Sherlock Holmes himself showed some talent in the detective line.

With such teachers as Lestrade and Gregson, Mr. Holmes may learn some their skill...”

“Didn’t I tell you so?” cried Sherlock Holmes with a laugh. “That’s the result of all our Study in Scarlet: to get them more praise!”

“Never mind,” I answered, “I have all the facts in my journal, and the public shall know them.

In the meantime, you will have to be content with your own knowledge of your success.”