Chapter 1
===================
“My mind,” said my friend Sherlock Holmes, “hates boredom above everything.

Give me problems on which to use my skills of observation and deduction (演绎法) .

I hate the dullness of one day just following another. I want excitement.

You have had some experience of my methods of work in the Jefferson Hope case.”

“Yes, indeed,” said I, cordially. “I was never so amazed by anything in my life.

I even wrote about it in a small booklet with the somewhat fantastic title of ‘A Study in Scarlet.’ ”

He shook his head sadly. “I glanced over it,” said he.

“You have tried to make it sound romantic, which is like introducing a love story into a geometry textbook.”

“But the romance was there,” I protested. “I could not change the facts.”

“The only point in the case which deserved mention was the unusual reasoning from effects to causes by which I succeeded in solving it.”

I was annoyed by his self-centeredness,

which seemed to demand that every line of my booklet should be all about his own special doings.

I said nothing, however, but sat nursing the pain in my leg, wounded by a bullet in the Afghan War.


I thought it best to change the subject,

“You spoke just now of observation and deduction (演绎) .

Surely one to some extent implies the other?” I replied.

“Hardly,” he answered, leaning back in his armchair.

“For example, observation shows me that you have been to the Wigmore Street Post-Office this morning,

but deduction (演绎) lets me know that there you sent a telegram.”

“Right!” said I.

“Right on both points! But I confess that I don’t see how you arrived at it.”

“It is simplicity itself,” he remarked, chuckling at my surprise,

“and yet it may serve to define the limits of observation and of deduction (演绎) .

Observation tells me that you have a little reddish mud on your shoe.

Just opposite the Wigmore Street Office they have taken up the pavement and thrown up some earth,

which lies in such a way that it is difficult to avoid stepping in it in entering.

The earth is of this peculiar reddish color which is found, as far as I know,

nowhere else in the neighborhood. So much is observation. The rest is deduction (演绎) .”

“How, then, did you deduce the telegram?”

“Of course I knew that you had not written a letter,

since I sat opposite to you all morning.

So you must have gone to send a telegram.

Eliminate all other factors, and the one which remains must be the truth.”

“May I ask whether you have any professional inquiry ongoing at present?” I asked.

“None. I cannot live without brainwork. What else is there to live for?

What is the use of having powers, Doctor, when there is nothing on which to use them?

Crime is commonplace (司空见惯的) , existence is commonplace (平凡无常的) , and everything is commonplace (老生常谈的) .”

I had opened my mouth to reply,

when with a crisp knock our landlady (女房东) entered, bearing a card on a tray.

“A young lady for you, sir,” she said, addressing my companion.

“Miss Mary Morstan,” he read.

“Ask the young lady to step up, Mrs. Hudson. Don’t go, Doctor.

I would prefer that you remain.”

Miss Morstan entered the room with a firm step. She was a blonde young lady, small,

dainty (秀丽的) , and dressed in the most perfect taste.

There was, however, a plainness about her costume which bore with it a suggestion of limited means.

The dress was a somber (灰暗的) grayish beige (毛呢料) , and she wore a hat of the same dull color,

with a small white feather in the side.

Her expression was sweet and amiable (和蔼的) ,

and her large blue eyes were spiritual and sympathetic.

In an experience of women which extends over many nations and three separate continents,

I have never looked upon a face which gave a clearer promise of a refined and sensitive nature.

I noticed that as she took the seat which Sherlock Holmes placed for her,

her lip trembled, her hand quivered, and she showed every sign of intense inward agitation (烦乱) .


“I have come to you, Mr. Holmes,” she said,

“because you once enabled my employer,

Mrs. Cecil Forrester, to unravel (解决) a little domestic complication.

She was much impressed by your kindness and skill.”

“Mrs. Cecil Forrester,” he repeated，slowly and thoughtfully.

“I believe I remember—the case, however, was a very simple one.”

“She did not think so.

But at least you cannot say the same of mine.

I can hardly imagine anything more inexplicable (费解的) than the situation in which I find myself.”

Holmes rubbed his hands, and his eyes glistened.

He leaned forward in his chair with an expression of extraordinary concentration upon his clear-cut, hawk-like features.

“State your case,” he said, in brisk, businesslike tones.

I felt that my position was an embarrassing one.

“You will, I am sure, excuse me,” I said, rising from my chair.

To my surprise, the young lady held up her gloved hand to detain (挽留) me.

“If your friend,” she said, “would be good enough to stay, he might be of great service to me.”

I sat back into my chair.

“Briefly,” she continued, “the facts are these.

My father was an officer in an Indian regiment who sent me home when I was quite a child.

When I was seventeen, my father obtained twelve months’ leave and came home.

He telegraphed to me from London that he had arrived safely,

and told me to come down at once, giving the Langham Hotel as his address.

His message, as I remember, was full of kindness and love.

On reaching London I drove to the Langham,

and was informed that Captain Morstan was staying there,

but that he had gone out the night before and had not yet returned.

I waited all day without news of him.

That night, on the advice of the manager of the hotel, I communicated with the police,

and next morning we advertised in all the papers.

Our inquiries led to no result;

and from that day to this, no word has ever been heard of my unfortunate father.

He came home with his heart full of hope,

to find some peace, some comfort, and instead—”

She put her hand to her throat, and a choking sob cut short the sentence.