Chapter 15
===================
Some hours after Young had left, Ferrier was still sitting with his elbows upon his knees,

considering how he should explain the matter to his daughter, when a soft hand was laid upon his, and looking up, he saw her standing beside him.

One glance at her pale, frightened face showed him that she had heard what had happened.

“There are some travelers starting for Nevada tomorrow, and I’ll ask them to carry a message to Jefferson Hope telling him the trouble we’re in.

Knowing him, he’ll be back sooner than anyone might expect.

In the meantime, we have a clear month before us,” said the father, “and at the end of that, I guess we had better leave Utah.”

“Leave Utah!”

“That’s about the size of it.”

“But the farm?”

“We will raise as much as we can in money, and let the rest go.

To tell the truth, Lucy, it isn’t the first time I have thought of doing it.

I don’t like to follow any man, as these folk do their prophet.

I’m a free-born American, and it’s all new to me. Guess I’m too old to learn.”

“But they won’t let us leave,” his daughter cried.

“Wait till Jefferson comes, and we’ll soon manage that. In the meantime, don’t you worry yourself.

There’s nothing to be afraid about, and there’s no danger at all.”

Mr. Ferrier was not nearly as confident as he tried to sound, but he sent a message to Jefferson Hope telling the young man of the danger,

and how necessary it was that he should return.

Having done that he felt easier in his mind, and returned home with a lighter heart.

Young had told Ferrier that his daughter must marry either Mr. Drebber or Mr. Stangerson.

Drebber and Stangerson called on Ferrier, who told them that his daughter would never marry either of them.

The next day, he found painted on a door on his farm the number ‘28’—the number of days that he had left to decide whom his daughter should marry.

Each night a new and smaller number was painted somewhere on his farm.

Ferrier was powerless, and could see no way of avoiding the blow that was coming to himself and his daughter.


One night after the number ‘2’ had been painted on his house, Ferrier heard someone tapping very gently upon the door.

Was it some midnight killer? John Ferrier felt that instant death would be better than the doubt.

Springing forward, he threw the door open. It was Jefferson Hope.

“Good God!” cried John Ferrier. “How you scared me!”

“Give me food,” Jefferson said. “I have had no time for food for forty-eight hours.”

He threw himself upon the cold meat and bread which were still lying upon the table from his host’s supper, and ate it quickly.

“Is Lucy well?” he asked, when he had satisfied his hunger.

“Yes. She does not know the danger,” her father answered.

“That is well. The house is watched on every side. They may be sharp, but they’re not quite sharp enough to catch a hunter such as I.”

John Ferrier felt a different man now that he realized that he had help.

He grabbed the young man’s hand and shook it warmly. “You’re a man to be proud of,” he said. “What are we to do?”

“Tomorrow is your last day, and unless you act tonight you are lost.

I have three horses waiting in the Eagle Ravine.

We must head for Carson City through the mountains.

You had better wake Lucy.

It is just as well that the servants do not sleep in the house.”

The welcoming between the lovers was warm, but brief, for minutes were precious, and there was much to be done.

Opening the window very slowly and carefully, they waited until a dark cloud had somewhat obscured the night,

and then one by one passed through into the little garden.

Once on the high road they made rapid progress.

About the middle of the second day of their flight their food began to run out.

This gave Jefferson a little uneasiness (担忧) .

Choosing a sheltered corner, he stacked together a few dried branches and made a fire, at which his companions might warm themselves.

And he set out in search of food.

He walked for a couple of miles without any luck.

At last, after two or three hours of searching, he managed to find and shoot a big-horn antelope (羚羊) .

The creature was too large to lift, so Jefferson cut away one thigh and part of the side.

With this food over his shoulder, he hurried to return to the others, for it was already getting dark.

When he turned the corner, he saw the spot where the fire had been.

There was still a glowing pile of wood ashes there, but it had evidently not been touched since his departure.

There was no living creature near the fire: animals, man, girl, all were gone.

It was only too clear that some sudden and terrible disaster had occurred during his absence.

Then his eye fell upon an object which made his blood run cold.

It was a newly-dug grave with a cross over it.

The writing on the cross was brief, but to the point:

JOHN FERRIER,

FORMERLY OF SALT LAKE CITY,

Died August 4th, 1860.


Jefferson Hope looked wildly round to see if there was a second grave, but there was no sign of one.

Lucy had been carried back by the Mormons to accomplish her original destiny (命运) as a wife of a member of the Church.

As the young fellow realized the certainty of her fate, and his own inability to prevent it, he wished that he, too, was lying with the old farmer.

However, his active spirit shook off the lethargy (倦怠) which sprang from despair.

If there was nothing else left to him, he could at least devote his life to revenge.

He heard from a Mormon acquaintance that Lucy was now married to Drebber, but that she was so sick that no one expected her to survive.

She died within a month.

Jefferson was just in time to attend the funeral preparations, and to take the wedding ring so that she would not be buried with it.


Drebber and Stangerson had left Utah, and no one knew where they had gone.

With the small amount of money he had, plus whatever he could earn along the way,

Jefferson Hope travelled from town to town in search of his enemies.

Year passed into year, his black hair turned grey and his health failed, but still he searched on,

a human bloodhound (猎犬) , with his mind wholly set upon the one object of revenge to which he had devoted his life.

He almost caught up with Drebber in Cleveland, Ohio, but Drebber and Stangerson (who had become Drebber’s private secretary) had him arrested.

By the time Jefferson Hope was free, his enemies had left for Europe.

Jefferson followed them there, and tracked his enemies from city to city.

When he reached St. Petersburg, they had left for Paris; and when he followed them there, he learned that they had just set off for Copenhagen.

At the Danish capital he was again a few days late, for they had left for London, where he found them at last.