Chapter 17
==================
“It was nearly one o’clock and it was rainy.

After some time, I pulled up at the house in the Brixton Road.

There was not a soul to be seen, nor a sound to be heard.

When I looked in at the window, I found Drebber was asleep.

I shook him by the arm, ‘It’s time to get out,’ I said.

“ ‘All right, cabman (车夫) ,’ said he.

“I suppose he thought we had come to the hotel, for he got out without another word, and followed me down the garden.

I had to walk beside him to keep him steady. When we came to the door, I opened it, and led him into the front room.

“ ‘It’s dark,’ said he.

“ ‘We’ll soon have a light,’ I said, striking a match and putting it to a red candle which I had brought with me.

‘Now, Enoch Drebber,’ I continued, turning to him, and holding the light to my own face, ‘who am I?’

“He gazed at me with drunken (迷醉的) eyes for a moment, and then I saw a horror spring up in them, and his whole face shook,

which showed me that he knew me. He staggered back with a pale face, trembling all over.

At the sight, I leaned my back against the door and laughed loud and long.

I never dreamed that revenge would be so sweet.

“ ‘You dog!’ I said, ‘I have hunted you from Salt Lake City to St. Petersburg, and you have always escaped me.

Now, at last your wanderings have come to an end, for either you or I shall never see tomorrow’s sun rise.’

He shrunk still further away as I spoke, and I could see on his face that he thought I was mad.

So I was, for a time. I believe I would have had a fit of some sort if the blood had not gushed from my nose and brought me to my senses.

“ ‘What do you think of Lucy Ferrier now?’ I cried, locking the door, and shaking the key in his face.

‘Punishment has been slow in coming, but it has come at last.’

I saw his lips tremble as I spoke.

He would have begged for his life, but he knew well that it was useless.

“ ‘Would you murder me?’ he stammered.

“ ‘There is no murder,’ I answered.

‘Who talks of murdering a mad dog? What mercy had you upon my poor darling,

when you dragged her from her slaughtered father, and bore her away to your accursed (受诅咒的) and shameless harem (闺房) .’

“I had with me a box containing two pills, one deadly poisonous, one harmless, that I had obtained in America.

‘Let the high God judge between us.” I said,

“Choose and eat. There is death in one and life in the other.

I will take what you leave. Let us see if there is justice upon the earth, or if we are ruled by chance.’

“He cowered away with wild cries and prayers for mercy, but I drew my knife and held it to his throat until he had obeyed me.

Then I swallowed the other, and we stood facing one another in silence for a minute or more, waiting to see which was to live and which was to die.

I will never forget the look which came over his face when the first warning pangs told him that the poison was in his system!

I laughed as I saw it, and held Lucy’s wedding ring in front of his eyes.

It was just for a moment, for the action of the poison is rapid.

A spasm (痉挛) of pain contorted his features; he threw his hands out in front of him, staggered, and then, with a cry, fell heavily upon the floor.

I turned him over with my foot, and placed my hand upon his heart.

There was no movement. He was dead!


“The blood had been streaming from my nose, but I had taken no notice of it.

I don’t know why I wrote upon the wall with it.

Perhaps it was some idea of setting the police upon a wrong track.

I remembered a German being found in New York with RACHE written up above him,

and it was argued at the time in the newspapers that the secret societies must have done it.

I guessed that what puzzled the New Yorkers would puzzle the Londoners,

so I dipped my finger in my own blood and printed it on the brightest place on the wall.

Then I walked down to my cab and drove away.

I had driven some distance when I put my hand into the pocket in which I usually kept Lucy’s ring, and found that it was not there.

I was shocked at this, for it was the only thing that I had of her.

Thinking that I might have dropped it when I bent over Drebber’s body, I drove back, leaving my cab in a side street.

When I arrived there, I walked right into the arms of a police-officer who was coming out,

and only managed to calm his suspicions by pretending to be drunk.

“That was how Enoch Drebber came to his end.

All I had to do then was to do the same to Stangerson, and so pay off John Ferrier’s debt.

I knew that he was staying at Halliday’s Private Hotel, and I hung about all day, but he never came out.

I guess he suspected something when Drebber failed to appear.

If he thought he could keep me away by staying indoors, he was very much mistaken.

I soon found out which was the window of his bedroom,

and early next morning I took advantage of some ladders which were lying in the lane behind the hotel, and so made my way into his room.

I woke him up and told him that the hour had come when he was to answer for the life he had taken so long before.

I described Drebber’s death to him, and I gave him the same choice of the poisoned pills.

Instead of taking the chance, he sprang from his bed and leapt at my throat.

In self-defense I stabbed him to the heart.

It would have been the same in any case, for God would never have allowed his guilty hand to pick out anything but the poison.

“I went on working with my cab for a day or so, intending to keep at it until I could save enough to take me back to America.

I was standing in the yard when a dirty young boy asked if there was a cabby (马车夫) there called Jefferson Hope,

and said that his cab was wanted by a gentleman at 221B, Baker Street.

I went round and the next thing I knew was this young man here had the handcuffs (手铐) on my wrists.

That’s the whole of my story, gentlemen.

You may consider me to be a murderer, but I hold that I am just as much an officer of justice as you are.”

“There is only one point on which I should like a little more information,” Sherlock Holmes said.

“Who was your accomplice (同谋) who came for the ring?”

The prisoner winked at my friend.

“I can tell my own secrets,” he said, “but I don’t get other people into trouble.

I saw your advertisement, and I thought it might be a fake, or it might be the ring which I wanted.

My friend offered to go and see. I think you’ll agree he did it smartly.”

“Not a doubt of that,” said Holmes.

Then Jefferson Hope was led off by a couple of prison guards, while my friend and I left the Station and took a cab back to Baker Street.