Chapter 2
=================
“The date?” asked Holmes, opening his notebook.

“He disappeared upon the third of December, 1878—nearly ten years ago.”

“His luggage?”

“Remained at the hotel. There was nothing in it to suggest a clue—

some clothes, some books, and a large number of souvenirs from the Andaman Islands.

He had been one of the officers in charge of the prison guards there.”

“Did he have any friends in town?”

“Only one that we know of—

Major Sholto, of his own regiment, the 34th Bombay Infantry (陆军) .

The major had retired some little time before, and lived at Upper Norwood.

We communicated with him, of course,

but he did not even know that his fellow officer was in England.”

“A strange and unusual case,” remarked Holmes.

“I have not yet told you the strangest part.

About six years ago—to be exact, upon the fourth of May, 1882—

an advertisement appeared in the Times asking for the address of Miss Mary Morstan and stating that it would be to her advantage to reply.

There was no name or address given.

I had at that time just entered the family of Mrs. Cecil Forrester as a governess (家庭女教师) .

By her advice I published my address in the advertisement column

The same day there arrived through the post a small cardboard (盒子) box addressed to me,

which I found to contain a very large and beautiful pearl.

No message was enclosed.

Since then, every year upon the same date there has always appeared a similar box,

containing a similar pearl, without any clue as to the sender.

An expert told me that they are of a very rare type, and rather valuable.

You can see for yourselves how beautiful they are.”

She opened a flat box as she spoke, and showed me six of the finest pearls that I had ever seen.


“Your statement is most interesting,” said Sherlock Holmes.

“Has anything else unusual happened to you?”

“Yes, just today. That is why I have come to you.

This morning I received this letter, which you will perhaps read for yourself.”

“Thank you,” said Holmes.

“The envelope too, please. Postmark (邮戳) , London, S.W. Date, July 7. Hum!

Man’s thumb mark on corner—

probably postman. Best quality paper. No address.

“Be at the third pillar from the left outside the Lyceum Theater tonight at seven o’clock.

If you are distrustful (困扰的，怀疑的) , bring two friends.

You are a wronged woman, and shall have justice.

Do not bring police. If you do, all will be in vain. Your unknown friend.

Well, what do you intend to do, Miss Morstan?”

“That is exactly what I want to ask you.”

“Then we shall most certainly go. You and I and Dr. Watson. The writer says two friends.”

“But would he come?”

she asked, with something appealing in her voice and expression.

“I should be proud and happy,” said I, fervently (热诚地) , “if I can be of any service.”

“You are both very kind,” she answered.

“I have led a lonely life, and have no friends whom I could appeal to.

If I am here at six it will do, I suppose?”

“You must not be later,” said Holmes. “There is one other point.

Is this handwriting the same as that upon the pearl-box addresses?”

“I have them here,” she answered, producing half a dozen pieces of paper.

“You are certainly an ideal client. You have the correct intuition. Let us see, now.”

He spread out the papers upon the table, and gave quick little glances from one to the other.

“They are disguised hands, except the letter,” he said, presently,

“but there can be no question as to the authorship.

See how the irrepressible (怪模怪样) Greek ‘e’ will break out, and see the twirl (（笔锋）一转) of the final ‘s’.

They are undoubtedly by the same person.

I should not like to suggest false hopes, Miss Morstan, but does the handwriting look like your father’s?”

“No—very different.”

“I expected to hear you say so. We shall expect you, then, at six.

Please allow me to keep the papers.

I may look into the matter before then. It is only half-past three. See you at six.”

“See you then,” said our visitor, and with a bright, kindly glance she hurried away.

Standing at the window, I watched her walking quickly down the street,

until the gray hat and white feather were but a tiny dot in the somber (黑压压的) crowd.

“What a very attractive woman!” I exclaimed, turning to my companion.

He had lit his pipe, and was leaning back sleepily. “Is she?” he said, “I did not observe.”

“You really are like a calculating machine!” I cried.

“There is something positively inhuman in you at times.”

He smiled gently. “It is of the first importance,” he said,

“not to allow your judgment to be biased by personal qualities.

The emotional qualities are unhelpful to clear reasoning.

The most charming woman I ever knew was hanged for poisoning three little children for their insurance-money,

and the ugliest man I know is a philanthropist (慈善家) who has spent nearly a quarter of a million pounds helping London’s poor.”

“In this case, however—”

“I never make exceptions. An exception disproves the rule.

I am going out now—there are some things I need to check.”

As I sat by the window, I thought about our recent visitor—

her smiles, the deep rich tones of her voice, the strange mystery which overhung her life.

As I sat there, dangerous thoughts came into my head—but who was I,

an army surgeon with a weak leg and a weaker banking account,

that I should dare to think of such things?

If my future were black,

it was better surely to face it like a man than to attempt to brighten it by imagining things that could never be.