Chapter 9
===============
It looked like a chemical laboratory.

A double line of glass bottles was drawn up upon the wall opposite the door,

and the table was covered with test-tubes and retorts.

In the corners stood large glass bottles of acid and other chemicals.

One of these appeared to leak or to have been broken,

for a stream of dark-coloured liquid had trickled out from it,

and the air was heavy with the smell of tar.

A set of steps stood at one side of the room,

in the midst of a litter of lath (板条) and plaster,

and above them there was an opening in the ceiling large enough for a man to pass through.

At the foot of the steps was a long, untidy pile of rope.

By the table, in a wooden armchair, the master of the house was seated all in a heap,

with his head sunk upon his left shoulder, and that terrible smile upon his face.

He was stiff and cold, and had clearly been dead many hours.

Not only his features but all his limbs were twisted in the most gruesome (可怕的) fashion.

By his hand upon the table there lay a peculiar instrument—

a brown wooden stick, with a stone head like a hammer, rudely fastened on with string.

Beside it was a torn sheet of note-paper with some words scrawled upon it.

Holmes glanced at it, and then handed it to me.


“You see,” he said, with a significant raising of the eyebrows (眉毛) .

In the light of the lantern I read, with a thrill of horror, “The sign of the four.”

“What does it all mean?” I asked.

“It means murder,” said he, stooping over the dead man.

“Ah, I expected it. Look here!”

He pointed to what looked like a long, dark thorn (荆刺) stuck in the skin just above the ear.

“It is a thorn (荆刺) . You may pick it out. But be careful, for it is poisoned.”

I took it up between my finger and thumb.

It came away from the skin so readily that hardly any mark was left behind.

One tiny drop of blood showed where the puncture (刺痕) had been.

“This is all an insoluble mystery to me,” said I. “It grows darker instead of clearer.”

“Not at all,” he answered, “it clears every instant.

I only require a few missing links to have an entirely connected case.”

We had almost forgotten our companion’s presence since we entered the chamber.

He was still standing in the doorway, the very picture of terror.

Suddenly, however, he broke out into a loud cry.

“The treasure is gone!” he said.

“They have robbed him of the treasure!

There is the hole through which we lowered it.

I helped him to do it! I was the last person who saw him!

I left him here last night, and I heard him lock the door as I came downstairs.”

“What time was that?”

“It was ten o’clock.

And now he is dead, and the police will be called in,

and I shall be suspected of having had a hand in it.

But surely you don’t think so, gentlemen?

Is it likely that I would have brought you here if it were I?

Oh, dear! Oh, dear! I know that I shall go mad!”

“You have no reason for fear, Mr. Sholto,”

said Holmes, kindly, putting his hand upon Mr. Sholto’s shoulder.

“Take my advice, and drive down to the station to report this matter to the police.

Offer to assist them in every way. We shall wait here until your return.”

The little man obeyed, and we heard him stumbling down the stairs in the dark.

“Now, Watson,” said Holmes, rubbing his hands,

“we have half an hour to ourselves. Let us make good use of it.

My case is, as I have told you, almost complete;

but we must not be over-confident.

Simple as the case seems now, there may be something deeper underlying it.”

“Simple!” I shouted.

“Surely,” said he, somewhat in the manner of a professor lecturing his class.

“Just sit in the corner there, that your footprints may not complicate matters.

Now to work! In the first place, how did these people come, and how did they go?

The door has not been opened since last night. How about the window?”

He carried the lamp across to it, muttering (咕哝) his observations aloud the while,

but talking to himself rather than to me.

“Window is closed on the inner side.

Framework is solid. No hinges (铰链) at the side.

Let us open it. No water-pipe near. Roof quite out of reach.

Yet a man has climbed up to the window. It rained a little last night.

Here is a muddy footprint on the sill (窗台) .

And here is a circular muddy mark, and here again upon the floor, and here again by the table.

See here, Watson! This is really a very pretty demonstration.”

I looked at the round, well-defined muddy circles.

“This is not a footmark,” said I.

“It is something much more valuable to us.

It is the impression of a wooden stump.

You see here on the sill (窗台) is the boot-mark,

a heavy boot with the broad metal heel,

and beside it is the mark of the wooden stump.”

“It is the wooden-legged man.”

“Quite so. But there has been someone else—a very able and efficient ally.

Could you climb that wall, doctor?”