Chapter 10
===================
I looked out of the open window.

The moon still shone brightly on that angle of the house.

We were a good sixty feet from the ground, and wherever I looked,

I could see no foothold (立足点) .

“It is absolutely impossible,” I answered.

“Without aid it is so.

But suppose you had a friend up here who lowered you this strong rope which I see in the corner,

fastening one end of it to this great hook in the wall.

Then, I think, if you were an active man, you might climb up,

wooden leg and all. You would leave, of course, in the same way, and your ally would draw up the rope,

untie it from the hook, shut the window, close it on the inside,

and get away in the same way that he originally came.

As a minor point it may be noted,” he continued, fingering the rope,

“that our wooden-legged friend, though a good climber, was not a professional sailor.

His hands were soft.

My lens discloses more than one blood mark, especially towards the end of the rope,

from which I gather that he slipped down with such speed that he took the skin off his hand.”

“But what about this mysterious ally? How did he get into the room?”

“Yes, the ally!” repeated Holmes, pensively (焦虑地) .

“There are features of interest about this ally.

He lifts the case from the regions of the commonplace (一般、普通) .

I fancy that this ally breaks fresh ground in the history of crime in this country—

though there are similar cases from India and from Africa.”

“How did he get in, then?” I reiterated. “The door is locked; the window is inaccessible.

Was it through the chimney?”

“It is much too small,” he answered.

“I had already considered that possibility.”

“How then?” I persisted.

“You will not apply my rule,” he said, shaking his head.

“How often have I said to you that when you have eliminated the impossible whatever remains,

however improbable, must be the truth?

We know that he did not come through the door, the window, or the chimney.

We also know that he could not have been hidden in the room,

as there is no hiding place. From where, then, did he come?”

“He came through the hole in the roof,” I cried.

“Of course he did.

He must have done so. If you will have the kindness to hold the lamp for me,

we shall now extend our researches to the room above—

the secret room in which the treasure was found.”

He mounted the steps, and, seizing a rafter (椽子) with either hand,

he swung himself up into the attic (阁楼) .

Then, lying on his face, he reached down for the lamp and held it while I followed him.

The room in which we found ourselves was about ten feet one way and six the other.

The floor was formed by the rafters, with thin lath (板条) -and-plaster between,

so that in walking one had to step from rafter (椽子) to rafter (椽子) .

The roof ran up to a peak, and was evidently the inner shell of the true roof of the house.

There was no furniture of any sort, and the dust of years lay thick upon the floor.

“Here you are, you see,” said Sherlock Holmes,

putting his hand against the sloping wall.

“This is a trap door which leads out on to the roof.

I can press it back, and here is the roof itself, sloping at a gentle angle.

This, then, is the way by which Number One entered.

Let us see if we can find any other traces (踪迹) of him.”

He held down the lamp to the floor,

and as he did so I saw for the second time that night a startled (受惊吓的) look come over his face.

For myself, as I followed his gaze my skin was cold under my clothes.

The floor was covered thickly with the prints of a naked foot—

clear, well defined, perfectly formed,

but scarcely half the size of those of an ordinary man.


“Holmes,” I said, in a whisper,

“a child has done the horrid (可怕的) thing.”

He had recovered his self-possession in an instant.

“I was staggered for the moment,” he said,

“but the thing is quite natural.

My memory failed me, or I should have been able to predict it.

There is nothing more to be learned here. Let us go down.”

“What is your theory, then, as to those footmarks?”

I asked, eagerly, when we were in the lower room once more.

“My dear Watson, try a little analysis yourself,”said he,

with a touch of impatience. “You know my methods.

Apply them, and it will be instructive to compare results.”

“I cannot conceive anything which will cover the facts,” I answered.

“It will be clear enough to you soon,” he said,in an offhand way.

“I think that there is nothing else of importance here, but I will look."

He whipped out his lens and a tape measure,

and hurried about the room on his knees, measuring, comparing, examining,

with his long thin nose only a few inches from the floor,

and his eyes gleaming and deep-set like those of a bird.

So swift and silent were his movements,

like those of a trained bloodhound (猎犬) picking out a scent,

that I could not but think what a terrible criminal he would have made had he turned his energy and intelligence against the law,

instead of using them in its defence.

As he hunted about, he kept muttering (喃喃自语) to himself,

and finally he broke out into a loud shout of delight.