Chapter 4
===================
At the Lyceum Theater the crowds were already thick at the side-entrances.

In front a continuous stream of cabs were hurrying up,

discharging their cargoes of men in suits and women in their best shawls and necklaces.

We had hardly reached the third pillar,

which was our meeting point, before a small, dark man dressed like a cab-driver came up to us.

“Are you the friends who come with Miss Morstan?” he asked.

“I am Miss Morstan, and these two gentlemen are my friends,” said she.

He looked at us with penetrating and questioning eyes.

“You will excuse me, miss,” he said with a certain persistent manner,

“but I was to ask you to give me your word that neither of your companions is a policeman.”

“I give you my word on that,” she answered.

He gave a loud whistle and a young boy led across a four-wheeler and opened the door.

The man who had spoken to us climbed up to the driver’s seat,

while we took our places inside.

We had hardly done so before the driver whipped up his horse,

and we set off at a furious pace through the foggy streets.

Miss Morstan was as resolute and collected as ever.

I tried to amuse her with stories of my adventures in Afghanistan;

but, to tell the truth,

I was myself so excited and so curious that my stories were somewhat strange.

To this day she claims that I told her how a rifle looked into my tent at the dead of night,

and how I fired a tiger at it.

At first I had some idea as to the direction in which we were driving;

but soon, what with our pace, the fog, and my own limited knowledge of London,

I lost my sense of direction, and knew only that we seemed to be going a very long way.

Sherlock Holmes was never lost, however,

and he muttered (咕哝着) the street names as the cab hurried through the narrow, winding streets.

We had a brief view of the Thames with the lamps shining upon the broad,silent water;

but our cab dashed on, and was soon in a maze (迷宫) of streets upon the other side.

“Wordsworth Road,” said my companion.

“Robert Street. Cold Harbor Lane.

Our quest does not appear to take us to very fashionable regions.”

We, indeed, reached a questionable and forbidding neighborhood.

Long lines of dull brick houses were only broken by tawdry (华而不实的，粗俗的) brilliance of corner pubs.

Then came rows of small two-storied houses,

each with a small front garden, and then unending lines of ugly new brick buildings—

the monster tentacles which the giant city was throwing out into the country.

At last the cab stopped at the third house in a new row.

None of the other houses were inhabited,

and the one where we stopped was as dark as its neighbors,

except for a single glimmer (微光) in the kitchen window.

On our knocking, however,

the door was instantly thrown open by an Indian servant wearing a yellow turban (头巾) and white loose-fitting clothes.

There was something out of place about this Oriental figure framed in the doorway of an ordinary suburban house.

“The Sahib awaits you,” said he,

and even as he spoke there came a high voice from some inner room.

“Show them straight in to me,” it cried.

We followed the Indian down a plain and dirty corridor, badly lit and worse furnished,

until he came to a door upon the right, which he threw open.

A blaze of yellow light streamed out upon us,

and in the center of it stood a small man with a very high bald head and a little red hair round the edge of it.

Nature had given him a too visible line of yellow and irregular teeth,

which he tried feebly to hide by constantly passing his hand over the lower part of his face.

In spite of his baldness, he seemed young. In fact, he had just passed thirty.

We were all astonished by the appearance of the room into which he invited us.

In that dismal (阴沉的，破败的) house, it looked as out of place as a perfect diamond in a setting of brass.

The richest of curtains and tapestries covered the walls,

with expensive-looking paintings and Oriental vases.

The carpet was so soft and so thick that the foot sank pleasantly into it,

as into a bed of moss. The two great tiger-skins on the floor,

and the sweet smell of incense that filled the air, added to the atmosphere of Eastern luxury.

“Please step into my little retreat.

A small place, but furnished to my own liking.

An oasis (绿洲) of art in the howling desert of South London.

That painting over there, for instance, is a genuine Corot...”


“You will excuse me, Mr. Sholto,” said Miss Morstan,

“but I am here, at your request, to learn something which you desire to tell me.

It is very late, and I would like the interview to be as short as possible.”

“It has to take some time,” he answered,

“for we shall certainly have to go to Norwood and see my brother Bartholomew,

and see if we can persuade him.

He is very angry with me for taking the course which has seemed right to me.

You cannot imagine what a terrible fellow he is when he is angry.”

“If we are to go to Norwood it would perhaps be as well to start at once,” I ventured to remark.

He laughed until his ears were quite red. “That would hardly do,” he cried.

“No, I must prepare you by showing you how we all stand in relation to each other.”