Chapter 3
=================
It was half past five before Holmes returned.

He was bright, eager, and in excellent spirits—

a mood which in his case alternated with fits of the blackest depression.

“There is no great mystery in this matter,” he said,

taking the cup of tea which I had poured out for him.

“The facts appear to admit of only one explanation.”

“What! You have solved it already?”

“Well, that would be too much to say.

I have discovered a suggestive fact, that is all.

It is, however, very suggestive. The details are still to be added.

I have just found, on consulting the back files of the Times,

that Major Sholto, of Upper Norwood, late of the 34th Bombay Infantry (步兵团) , died upon the 28th of April, 1882.”

“I may be very stupid, Holmes, but I don’t see what this suggests.”

“No? You surprise me. Look at it in this way, then. Captain Morstan disappears.

The only person in London whom he could have visited is Major Sholto.

Major Sholto denies having heard that he was in London.

Four years later Sholto dies.

Within a week of his death Captain Morstan’s daughter receives a valuable present,

which is repeated from year to year, and now finally,

this letter which describes her as a wronged woman.

What wrong can it refer to except this deprivation of her father?

And why should the presents begin immediately after Sholto’s death,

unless because Sholto’s heir knows something of the mystery and desires to make compensation?

Have you any alternative theory which will meet the facts?”

“But what a strange compensation!

Why, too, should he write a letter now, rather than six years ago?

Again, the letter speaks of giving her justice.

What justice can she have? It is too much to suppose that her father is still alive.”

“There are difficulties,” said Sherlock Holmes, thoughtfully,

“but our expedition of tonight will solve them all.

Ah, here is a four-wheeler, and Miss Morstan is inside. Are you ready?

Then we had better go down, for it is a little past the hour.”

I picked up my hat and my heaviest stick,

but I observed that Holmes took his gun from his drawer and slipped it into his pocket.

It was clear that he thought that our night’s work might be a serious one.

Miss Morstan was wrapped in a dark cloak, and her sensitive face was calm, but pale.

She must have felt some uneasiness at the strange enterprise upon which we were setting out,

yet her self-control was perfect,

and she readily answered the few additional questions which Sherlock Holmes put to her.

“Major Sholto was a very special friend of papa’s,” she said.

“Papa talked a lot about the major in his letters.

The major and papa were in command of the troops at the Andaman Islands,

so they were together a good deal.

By the way, a curious paper was found in papa’s desk which no one could understand.

I don’t suppose it is important, but I thought you might want to see it,

so I brought it with me.

Here it is.”

Holmes unfolded the paper carefully and smoothed it out upon his knee.

He then very methodically examined it all over with his magnifying glass.

“It is paper of native Indian manufacture,” he remarked.

“It has at some time been pinned to a board.

The diagram upon it appears to be a map of part of a large building with many halls, corridors, and passages.

At one point is a small cross done in red ink,

and above it is ‘3.37 from left’ in faded pencil-writing.

In the left-hand corner is a curious shape like four crosses in a line with their arms touching.

Beside it is written, in very rough and coarse characters,

‘The sign of the four—Jonathan Small, Mahomet Singh, Abdullah Khan, Dost Akbar.’

No, I confess that I do not see how this bears upon the matter.

Yet it is evidently a document of importance.

It has been kept carefully in a pocket-book;

for the one side is as clean as the other.”

“It was in his pocketbook that we found it.”

“Keep it carefully, then, Miss Morstan,

for it may prove useful to us.

I begin to suspect that this matter may turn out to be much deeper and more subtle than I at first supposed.

I must reconsider my ideas.”

He leaned back in the cab,

and I could see by his wrinkled forehead and his vacant eyes that he was thinking intently.

Miss Morstan and I chatted in an undertone about our present expedition and its possible result,

but our companion maintained his impenetrable (无法干预的) reserve until the end of our journey.

It was a September evening, and not yet seven o’clock,

but the day had been a dreary (沉闷的) one,

and a dense drizzly (下毛毛雨的) fog lay low upon the great city.

Down the Strand the lamps were but misty patches of blurred light which threw a feeble circular glimmer (（微弱的）光芒) upon the wet pavement.

There was, to my mind,

something ghost-like in the endless procession of faces which flitted across these narrow patches of light—

sad faces and glad, desperate and merry.

Like all humans, they flitted from the darkness into the light,

and so back into the darkness once more.

I am not subject to impressions, but the dull, heavy evening,

with the strange business upon which we were engaged,

combined to make me nervous and depressed.

I could see from Miss Morstan’s manner that she was suffering from the same feeling.

Holmes alone was unaffected.

He held his open notebook upon his knee,

and from time to time he noted down figures and ideas in it.