Chapter 11
===============
“We are certainly in luck,” said he.

“We ought to have very little trouble now.

Number One has had the bad luck to step in the tar.

You can see the outline of the edge of his small foot here at the side of this evil-smelling mess.

The large bottle has been cracked, and the stuff has leaked out.”

“What then?” I asked.

“We have got him, that’s all,”

said he. “I know a dog that would follow that scent to the world’s end.

But hello! Here are the official representatives of the law.”

Heavy steps and the shout of loud voices could be heard from below,

and the hall door shut with a loud crash.

“Before they come,” said Holmes,

“just put your hand here on this poor fellow’s arm, and here on his leg.

What do you feel?”

“The muscles are as hard as a board,” I answered.

“Quite so. They are in a state of extreme contraction, far exceeding the usual rigor mortis.

Coupled with this distortion of the face, what conclusion would it suggest to your mind?”

“Death from some powerful vegetable alkaloid (碱) ,” I answered, “similar to strychnine (番木鳖碱) .”

“That was the idea which occurred to me the instant I saw the extremely tense muscles of the face.

On entering the room, I at once looked for the method by which the poison had entered the body.

As you saw, I discovered a thorn (荆刺) which had been driven or shot with no great force into the scalp (头皮) .

You observe that the part struck was that which would be turned towards the hole in the ceiling

if the man were sitting upright in his chair. Now examine the thorn (荆刺) .”

I took it up carefully and held it in the light of the lantern.

It was long, sharp, and black, with a shiny look near the point as though some sticky substance had dried upon it.

The blunt end had been trimmed with a knife.

“Is that an English thorn (荆刺) ?” he asked.

“No, it certainly is not.”

“With all these data you should be able to draw some conclusions.

But here are the regular police: perhaps we had better leave them to it.”

As he spoke, the steps which had been coming nearer sounded loudly on the passage,

and a fat man in a grey suit walked heavily into the room. He was red-faced,

with a pair of very small twinkling eyes which looked keenly out of his large, swollen face.

He was closely followed by an inspector in uniform, and by the still terrified Thaddeus Sholto.

“Here’s a business!” he cried, “But who are all these people?

The house seems to be as full as a rabbit-warren!”

“I think you must remember me, Mr. Athelney Jones,” said Holmes, quietly.

“Of course I do!” he said, out of breath.

“It’s Mr. Sherlock Holmes, the theorist. Remember you!

I’ll never forget how you lectured us all on causes and effects in the Bishopgate jewel case.

It’s true that you gave us the right idea;

but I’m sure you’ll admit now that it was mostly by good luck.”

“It was a piece of very simple reasoning.”

“Just facts here, no room for theories.

How lucky that I happened to be out at Norwood over another case!

I was at the station when the message arrived.

What do you think the man died of?”

“Oh, this is hardly a case where you would want my theories,” said Holmes, dryly.

“No, no. Still, we can’t deny that you hit the nail on the head sometimes.

Dear me! Door locked, I understand.

Jewels worth half a million missing. How was the window?”

“Fastened; but there are steps on the sill (窗台) .”

“Well, well, if it was fastened, the steps could have nothing to do with the matter.

That’s common sense. Man might have died of a stroke;

but then the jewels are missing. Ha! I have a theory.

These sudden ideas come to me at times.

Just step outside, Sergeant, and you, Mr. Sholto.

Your friend can remain. What do you think of this, Holmes?

Sholto was, he admits, with his brother last night.

The brother died of a stroke, then Sholto walked off with the treasure.

How’s that?”

“And then the dead man got up and locked the door from the inside?”

“Hum! There might be a problem there.

Never mind. Let us apply common sense.

Thaddeus Sholto was with his brother; there was a quarrel;

so much we know. The brother is dead and the jewels are gone.

So much also we know. No one saw the brother from the time Thaddeus left him.

His bed had not been slept in.

Thaddeus is evidently in a most disturbed state of mind.

The net begins to close upon Thaddeus Sholto.”

“You do not have all the facts yet,”

said Holmes. “This thorn (荆刺) , which I have every reason to believe to be poisoned,

was in the man’s skin where you still see the mark;

this card, with the writing as you see it, was on the table;

and beside it lay this rather curious stone-headed tool. How does all that fit into your theory?”