Chapter 6
================
Put your ears down to my mouth. The treasure is hidden in—’

At this instant a horrible change came over his expression;

his eyes stared wildly, his jaw dropped, and he yelled,

in a voice which I can never forget, ‘Keep him out! Keep him out!’

We both stared round at the window behind us upon which his gaze was fixed.

A face was looking in at us out of the darkness.

We could see the whitening of the nose where it was pressed against the glass.

It was a bearded, hairy face,

with wild cruel eyes and an expression of concentrated hatred.

My brother and I rushed towards the window, but the man was gone.

When we returned to my father, his head had dropped and his heart had stopped.


“We searched the garden that night, but found no sign of the intruder (不速之客) ,

except that just under the window a single footmark was visible in the flower bed.

But we soon had another and a more striking proof that there were secret agencies at work.

The next morning, the window of my father’s room was found open.

His cupboards and boxes had been searched,

and upon his chest was fixed a torn piece of paper,

with the words ‘The sign of the four’ scrawled across it.

What the phrase meant, or who our secret visitor may have been, we never knew.

As far as we can judge, none of my father’s property had been actually stolen,

though everything had been searched through.

My brother and I naturally associated this peculiar incident with the fear which haunted my father during his life;

but it is still a complete mystery to us.”

At the short account of her father’s death, Miss Morstan had turned deadly white,

and for a moment I feared that she was about to faint.

She rallied, however, on drinking a glass of water which I quietly poured out for her.

Sherlock Holmes leaned back in his chair with a far-away expression and half-closed eyes.

As I glanced at him,

I thought how on that very same day he had complained bitterly of the boredom of life.

Here was a problem which would test his ability to the utmost.

Mr. Thaddeus Sholto looked from one to the other of us with an obvious pride at the effect which his story had produced,

and then continued.


“My brother and I,” said he,

“were very excited about the treasure which my father had spoken of.

For weeks and for months we dug in every part of the garden, without finding it.

It was maddening to think that the hiding-place was on his very lips at the moment that he died.

We could judge the splendor (价值) of the missing riches by the necklace which he had taken out.

Over this necklace my brother Bartholomew and I had some discussion.

The pearls were evidently of great value, and he did not want to part with them,

for my brother was himself a little inclined to my father’s fault.

He thought, too, that if we parted with the necklace it might give rise to gossip and finally bring us into trouble.

Finally I persuaded him to let me find out Miss Morstan’s address and send her a single pearl at fixed intervals,

so that at least she might never be completely out of money.”

“It was a kindly thought,” said our companion, earnestly.

“It was extremely good of you.”

“We were your trustees (担保人) ,” he said.

“That was the view which I took of it,

though Brother Bartholomew did not see it quite that way.

We had plenty of money ourselves. I desired no more.

Besides, it would have been very bad taste to have treated a young lady in so mean a fashion.

Our difference of opinion on this subject went so far that I decided to move out:

so I left Pondicherry Lodge, taking the old Indian servant and Williams with me.

Yesterday, however, I learnt that the treasure has been discovered.

I instantly communicated with Miss Morstan,

and it only remains for us to drive out to Norwood and demand our share.

I explained my views last night to Brother Bartholomew,

so we shall be expected, if not welcome, visitors.”

“You have done well, sir, from first to last,” said Holmes.

“But, as Miss Morstan remarked just now, it is late,

and we had better resolve this issue without delay.”

Our new acquaintance produced from behind a curtain a very long fur coat,

which he buttoned tightly up, and put on a rabbit-skin cap with long ear-flaps,

so that no part of him was visible except his face.

“My health is somewhat fragile,” he remarked, as he led the way down the passage.


Our cab was awaiting us outside, and the driver started off at a rapid pace.

Thaddeus Sholto talked incessantly (不停地) ,

in a voice which rose high above the rattle of the wheels.

“Bartholomew is a clever fellow,” said he.

“How do you think he found out where the treasure was?

He had come to the conclusion that it was somewhere indoors:

so he worked out all the space in the house, and made measurements everywhere,

so that not one inch should be unaccounted for.

Among other things, he found that the height of the building was seventy-four feet,

but on adding together the heights of all the separate rooms,

and making every allowance for the space between,

he could not bring the total to more than seventy feet.

There were four feet unaccounted for. These could only be at the top of the building.

He knocked a hole, therefore, in the lath (板条) -and-plaster ceiling of the highest room,

and there, sure enough, he came upon another little attic (阁楼) above it,

which had been sealed up and was known to no one.

In the centre stood the treasure-chest, resting upon two rafters.

He lowered it through the hole, and there it lies.

He computes the value of the jewels at not less than half a million pounds.”