Chapter 8
===================
Our guide had left us the lantern.

Holmes swung it slowly round, and looked closely at the house,

and at the great rubbish-heaps all around the property.

Miss Morstan and I stood together, and her hand was in mine.

A wonderfully subtle thing is love,

for here were we two who had never seen each other before that day,

between whom no word or even look of affection had ever passed,

and yet now in an hour of trouble our hands instinctively sought for each other.

I have marvelled at it since,

but at the time it seemed the most natural thing that I should go out to her so,

and, as she has often told me,

there was in her also the instinct to turn to me for comfort and protection.

So we stood hand in hand, like two children, and there was peace in our hearts,

despite all the dark things that surrounded us.

“What a strange place!” she said, looking around.

“It looks as though all the moles in England had been let loose in it.

I have seen something of the sort on the side of a hill near Ballarat,

where the searchers for gold had been at work.”

“And from the same cause,” said Holmes.

“These are the traces (痕迹) of the treasure-seekers.

You must remember that they were six years looking for it.

No wonder that the grounds look like a gravel-pit.”

At that moment the door of the house burst open,

and Thaddeus Sholto came running out, with terror in his eyes.

“There is something wrong with Bartholomew!” he cried.

“I am terrified! My nerves cannot stand it.”

He was, indeed, half crying with fear,

and his feeble face peeping out from his great coat had the helpless appealing expression of a terrified child.

“Come into the house,” said Holmes, in his firm way.

“Yes, do!” pleaded Thaddeus Sholto.

“I really do not feel up to giving orders.”

We all followed him into the housekeeper’s room,

which stood upon the left-hand side of the passage.

The old woman was pacing up and down with a terrified look and restless fingers,

but the sight of Miss Morstan appeared to have a calming effect upon her.

“God bless your sweet calm face!”

she cried, with a hysterical sob. “It does me good to see you.

Oh, but I have had such a shock this day!”

Our companion patted her thin, work-worn hand,

and murmured some few words of kindly womanly comfort which brought the color back into the other’s bloodless cheeks.

“Master has locked himself in and will not answer me,” she explained.

“All day I waited to hear from him, for he often likes to be alone;

but an hour ago I feared that something was wrong,

so I went up and looked through the key-hole.

You must go up, Mr. Thaddeus—you must go up and look for yourself.

I have known Mr. Bartholomew Sholto for ten years,

but I never saw him with such a face as that.”

Sherlock Holmes took the lamp and led the way.

So shaken was Thaddaeus Sholto that I had to pass my hand under his arm as we went up the stairs,

for his knees were trembling under him.

Twice as we ascended Holmes took his lens out of his pocket

and carefully examined marks which appeared to me to be mere shapeless smudges of dust upon the stair-carpet.

He walked slowly from step to step, holding the lamp,

and looking closely to right and left.

Miss Morstan had remained behind with the frightened housekeeper.


The third flight of stairs ended in a straight passage of some length,

with three doors upon the left.

Holmes walked along it in the same slow and methodical way,

while we kept close behind him,

with our long black shadows streaming backwards down the corridor.

The third door was the one we were seeking.

Holmes knocked without receiving any answer,

and then tried to turn the handle and force it open.

It was locked on the inside, however, and by a broad and powerful bolt,

as we could see when we set our lamp up against it.

The key being turned, however, the hole was not entirely closed.

Sherlock Holmes bent down to it,

and instantly rose again with a sharp intake of the breath.

“There is something evil in this, Watson,”

said he, more emotional than I had ever seen him before.

“What do you make of it?”

I bent down to the hole, and jumped back in horror.

Moonlight was streaming into the room.

Looking straight at me, and hanging, as it seemed,in the air,

for everything beneath was in shadow, there hung a face—

the same face as that of our companion Thaddeus.

There was the same high, shining head, the same red hair, the same paleness.

The features were set, however, in a horrible smile, a fixed and unnatural grin,

which in that still and moonlit (月光照耀的) room was more frightening than any scowl (愁容) .

So like was the face to that of our little friend that I looked round at him to make sure that he was indeed with us.

Then I remembered that he had told us that his brother and he were twins.

“This is terrible!” I said to Holmes. “What is to be done?”

“The door must come down,” he answered, and, throwing himself against it,

he put all his weight upon the lock. It creaked and groaned,

but did not yield. Together we flung ourselves upon it once more,

and this time it broke with a sudden snap,

and we found ourselves within Bartholomew Sholto’s bedroom.