Chapter 5
===================
“My father was, as you may have guessed, Major John Sholto, once of the Indian army.

He retired some eleven years ago,and came to live at Pondicherry Lodge in Upper Norwood.

He brought back with him a considerable sum of money,

a large collection of valuable antiques, and a staff of native servants.

With these advantages he bought himself a house, and lived in great luxury.

My twin brother Bartholomew and I were the only children.

“I very well remember the sensation which was caused by the disappearance of Captain Morstan.

We read the details in the papers, and,

knowing that he had been a friend of our father’s,

we discussed the case freely in his presence.

He used to join in our discussions as to what could have happened.

Never for an instant did we suspect that he, and he alone, knew the fate of Arthur Morstan.

“We did know, however, that some danger overhung our father.

He was very fearful of going out alone,

and he always employed two prize-fighters to act as guards at Pondicherry Lodge.

Williams, who drove you tonight, was one of them.

He was once the boxing champion of England.

Our father would never tell us what he feared,

but he had a very strong dislike of men with wooden legs.

On one occasion he actually fired his gun at a wooden-legged man,

who proved to be a harmless tradesman.

We had to pay a large sum to keep it quiet.

My brother and I used to think this a mere whim (一时糊涂) of my father’s,

but events have since led us to change our opinion.

“Early in 1882 my father received a letter from India which was a great shock to him.

He nearly fainted at the breakfast table when he opened it,

and from that day he sickened to his death.

What was in the letter we could never discover,

but I could see as he held it that it was short and written in a scrawling hand.

He had been ill for some time,

but he now became rapidly worse,

and towards the end of April we were told that he was beyond all hope,

and that he wished to have one last talk with us.

“When we entered his room he was supported by pillows and breathing heavily.

He asked us to lock the door and to come upon either side of the bed.

Then, grasping our hands, he made a remarkable statement to us,

in a voice which was broken as much by emotion as by pain.

I shall try and give it to you in his own exact words.

“ ‘I have only one thing,’ he said, ‘which weighs upon my mind at this last moment.

It is my treatment of poor Morstan’s orphan (孤儿) .

The greed which has been my worst sin has kept from her the treasure,

half at least of which should have been hers.

And yet I have not used it myself, so foolish a thing is greed.

See that pearl necklace beside the medicine-bottle.

I could not bear even to part with that, although I got it out planning to send it to her.

You, my sons, will give her a fair share of the Agra treasure.

But send her nothing—not even the necklace—until I am dead.

After all, men have been as bad as this and have recovered.

“ ‘I will tell you how Morstan died,’ he continued.

‘He had suffered for years from a weak heart, but he hid it from every one.

I alone knew it.

When in India, he and I, through a remarkable chain of circumstances,

came into possession of a considerable treasure.

I brought it over to England,

and on the night of Morstan’s arrival he came straight over here to claim his share.

Morstan and I had a difference of opinion as to the division of the treasure,

and we argued loudly.

Morstan had sprung out of his chair in anger,

when he suddenly pressed his hand to his side, his face turned dark,

and he fell backwards, cutting his head against the corner of the treasure-chest.

When I stooped over him I found, to my horror, that he was dead.

“ ‘For a long time I sat half distracted, wondering what I should do.

My first impulse was to call for help;

but I realized that there was every chance that I would be accused of his murder.

His death at the moment of a quarrel,

and the big cut in his head, would be black against me.

And any official investigation would bring out some facts about the treasure which I particularly wanted to keep secret.

He had told me that no one knew where he had gone,

and there seemed no reason why anyone ever should know.

“ ‘I was still thinking over the matter, when, looking up, I saw my servant in the doorway.

He came quietly in and bolted the door behind him.

“Do not fear, Sahib,” he said.

“No one need know that you have killed him.

Let us hide him away, and who is the wiser?”

“I did not kill him,” said I.

He shook his head and smiled.

“I heard it all, Sahib,” said he, “I heard you quarrel, and I heard the blow.

But my lips are sealed.

All are asleep in the house.

Let us put him away together.”

That was enough to decide me.

If my own servant could not believe my innocence,

how could I hope to persuade a jury?

My servant and I disposed of the body that night,

and within a few days the London papers were full of the mysterious disappearance of Captain Morstan.

You will see that I can hardly be blamed for his death.

My fault lies in the fact that we concealed not only the body, but also the treasure,

and that I have kept Morstan’s share as well as to my own.

I wish you, therefore, to make restitution (偿还) .