Chapter 19
=================
“I have no wish to make a mystery of him to you, anyway.

But you must have formed your own opinion.

Now, do consider the data.

Tiny footmarks, naked feet, stone-headed wooden club, great agility (敏捷) , small poisoned darts (毒镖) .

What do you make of all this?”

“A savage!” I exclaimed.

“Perhaps one of those Indians who were the associates of Jonathan Small.”

“Hardly that,” said he.

“When first I saw signs of strange weapons I was inclined to think so;

but the remarkable character of the footmarks caused me to reconsider my views.

Some Indians are small men, but none could have left such marks as that.

Hindus have long and thin feet.

Sandal (拖鞋) -wearing Mohammedans have the big toe well separated from the others.

These little darts (毒镖) , too, could only be shot in one way.

They are from a blow-pipe.

Now, then, where are we to find our savage?”

“South America,” I hazarded.

He stretched his hand up, and took down a bulky volume from the shelf.

“This is the first volume of an atlas which is now being published.

It may be looked upon as the very latest authority.

What have we here?

“Andaman Islands, situated 340 miles to the north of Sumatra, in the Bay of Bengal.

Hum! hum!

What’s all this?

Moist climate, coral reefs (礁石) , sharks, Port Blair, prison camp, Rutland Island, cottonwood (棉白杨) trees

—Ah, here we are.

“The natives of the Andaman Islands may perhaps claim the distinction of being the smallest race upon this earth.

The average height is rather below four feet, although many full-grown adults may be found who are very much smaller than this.

They are a fierce people,

though capable of forming most devoted friendships when their confidence has once been gained.

Notice that, Watson. Listen to this.

“They are naturally hideous (丑陋的) , having large, misshapen (畸形的) heads, small, fierce eyes,

and distorted features.

Their feet and hands, however, are remarkably small.

So fierce and wild are they that all the efforts of the British have failed to civilize them.

They have always been a terror to shipwrecked (海难) crews,

killing the survivors with their stone-headed clubs,

or shooting them with their poisoned arrows.

These massacres always end with a cannibal (吃生肉的) feast.

Friendly people, Watson!

I imagine that, the way things turned out,

Jonathan Small would much prefer not to have employed him.”

“But how did he happen to have so unusual a companion?”

“Since we have already determined that Small had come from the Andamans,

it is not so surprising that this islander should be with him.

No doubt we shall know all about it in time. Look here, Watson;

you look exhausted.

Lie down there on the sofa, and see if I can put you to sleep.”

He took up his violin from the corner,

and as I stretched myself out he began to play some low, dreamy,melodious (悦耳的) tune.

I seemed to be floating peacefully away upon a soft sea of sound,

until I found myself in the land of dreams,

with the sweet face of Mary Morstan looking down upon me.

For two days,despite our best efforts and to Holmes’ great surprise and disappointment,

we could discover no news at all of the Aurora.

On the third Holmes left early,

asking me to handle any messages or telegrams that came.

At three o’clock that afternoon Mr. Athelney Jones was shown up to me.

But this was no longer the man who had taken over the case so confidently at Upper Norwood.

His expression was downcast (沮丧的) , and his look was meek (老实的) and even apologetic.

“Good-day, sir,” said he.

“Mr. Sherlock Holmes is out, I understand.”

“Yes, and I cannot be sure when he will be back.”

“I have had to reconsider my theory,” said my guest.

“I had my net drawn tightly round Mr. Sholto,

but he was able to prove an alibi (不在场证明) which could not be shaken.

From the time that he left his brother’s room he was never out of sight of someone or other.

So it could not be he who climbed over roofs and through trap doors.

My professional reputation is at stake,

and I should be very glad of a little assistance.”

“We all need help sometimes,” said I.

“Your friend Mr. Sherlock Holmes is a wonderful man, sir,”

said he, in a confidential voice.

“I had a telegram from him this morning,

by which I understand that he has got some clue to this Sholto business.

Here is the message.”

He took the telegram out of his pocket,

and handed it to me. It was dated from Poplar at twelve o’clock.

Go to Baker Street at once [it said].

If I have not returned, wait for me.

I am close on the track of the Sholto gang.

You can come with us tonight if you want to be in at the finish.

A heavy step was heard climbing the stair, with a loud panting (喘气) as from a man who was out of breath.

Once or twice he stopped, as though the climb were too much for him,

but at last he made his way to our door and entered.

His appearance corresponded to the sounds which we had heard.

He was an old man, in sailor’s clothes.

His back was bent, his knees were shaky (颤颤巍巍的) , and his breathing was painfully asthmatic (气喘的) .

He gave me the impression of a respectable sailor who had fallen into poverty.