Chapter 13
=================
The police had brought a cab with them, and in this I escorted Miss Morstan back to her home.

After the angelic fashion of women,

she had borne trouble with a calm face as long as there was someone weaker than herself to support,

and I had found her bright and calm by the side of the frightened housekeeper.

In the cab, however, she first turned faint,

and then burst into a passion of weeping—

so terribly had she been tested by the adventures of the night.

She has told me since that she thought me cold and distant upon that journey.

She little guessed the struggle within my breast, or the effort of self-restraint which held me back.

My sympathies and my love went out to her, even as my hand had in the garden.

I felt that years of ordinary conventional life could not teach me to know her sweet,

brave nature as had this one day of strange experiences.

Yet there were two thoughts which sealed the words of affection upon my lips.

She was weak and helpless, shaken in mind and nerve.

It was to take her at a disadvantage to thrust my love upon her at such a time.

Worse still, she was rich. If Holmes’s researches were successful,

she would be an heiress.

Was it fair, was it honourable,

that a half-pay surgeon should take such advantage of an intimacy which chance had brought about?

Might she not look upon me as a mere common fortune-seeker?

I could not bear to risk that such a thought should cross her mind.

This Agra treasure stood like an impassable barrier between us.

It was nearly two o’clock when we reached Mrs. Cecil Forrester’s.

The servants had gone to bed hours ago,

but Mrs. Forrester had been so interested by the strange message which Miss Morstan had received that she had sat up in the hope of her return.

She opened the door herself, a middle-aged, graceful woman,

and it gave me joy to see how tenderly her arm wrapped round the other’s waist,

and how motherly was the voice in which she greeted her.

Miss Morstan was clearly no mere employee, but an honoured friend.

I was introduced,

and Mrs. Forrester earnestly asked me to come in and tell her our adventures.

I explained, however,

the importance of my task,

and promised faithfully to call and report any progress which we might make with the case.

As we drove away I looked back,

and I still seemed to see that little group on the step,

the two graceful, clinging figures, the half-opened door,

and the hall light shining through stained glass.

It was soothing (安慰的) to catch even that passing glimpse of a peaceful English home in the midst of the wild,

dark business which had overtaken us.


And the more I thought of what had happened, the wilder and darker it grew.

I reviewed the whole extraordinary sequence of events as I rattled on through the silent streets.

There was the original problem:

that at least was pretty clear now.

The death of Captain Morstan,

the sending of the pearls, the advertisement, the letter—

we understood all those events.

They had only led us, however, to a deeper and far more tragic mystery.

The Indian treasure, the strange map found among Morstan’s baggage,

the strange scene at Major Sholto’s death,

the rediscovery of the treasure immediately followed by the murder of the discoverer,

the very unusual circumstances of the crime, the footsteps, the remarkable weapons,

the words upon the card,

corresponding with those upon Captain Morstan’s chart—

here was indeed a maze (迷惑) in which a man less specially gifted than my fellow lodger might well despair of ever finding the clue.

Pinchin Lane was a row of shabby two-storied brick houses.

I had to knock for some time at No. 3 before I got any response.

At last, however, there was the light of a candle behind the curtain,

and a face looked out at the upper window.

“Go away,” said a voice from above,

“if you make any more noise,

I’ll let out forty-three dogs upon you.”

“If you’ll let one out, it’s just what I have come for,” said I.

“Go away!” yelled the voice.

“Mr. Sherlock Holmes—”

I began, and the words had a most magical effect,

for within a minute the door was unbarred and opened by a tall, thin old man.

“A friend of Mr. Sherlock is always welcome,”

said he. “Don’t worry about the snake, sir;

it’s not poisonous, and I leave it out to eat the beetles.

I hope you don’t mind my being rude to you at first.

What was it that Mr. Sherlock Holmes wanted, sir?”

“He wanted a dog of yours.”

“Ah! That would be Toby.”

“Yes, Toby was the name.”

“Toby lives at No. 7 on the left here.”

I could see that he kept many animals of different kinds.

Even the ceiling above our heads was lined with cages full of birds,

who lazily shifted their weight from one leg to the other as our voices disturbed their sleep.

Toby proved to be an ugly, long-haired, long-eared creature,

brown and white in color, with a slow, clumsy walk.

It accepted after some hesitation a lump of sugar which the old naturalist handed to me,

and, having thus sealed an alliance,

it followed me to the cab, and made no objection to accompanying me.

The Palace clock had just struck three when I found myself back once more at Pondicherry Lodge.

The ex-prize-fighter McMurdo had, I found, been arrested as an accessory (帮凶) ,

and both he and Mr. Sholto had been marched off to the station.

Two policemen guarded the narrow gate,

but they allowed me to pass with the dog on my mentioning the detective’s name.