Chapter 20
==================
“What is it, my man?” I asked.

He looked about him in the slow methodical fashion of old age.


“Is Mr. Sherlock Holmes here?” said he.

“No; but I am acting for him.

You can tell me any message you have for him.”

“It was to him himself I was to tell it,” said he.

“Well then, you must wait for him.”

“No, I won’t lose a whole day to please anyone.

If Mr. Holmes isn’t here, then Mr. Holmes must find it all out for himself.

I don’t like the look of either of you, and I won’t say a word.”

He shuffled (拖着脚) towards the door,

but Athelney Jones got in front of him.

“Wait a bit, my friend,” said he.

“You have important information, and you must not walk off.

We shall keep you, whether you like or not, until our friend returns.”

“You will be none the worse,” I said.

“We will pay you for the loss of your time.

Sit over here on the sofa, and you will not have long to wait.”

He came across reluctantly,

and seated himself with his face resting on his hands.

Jones and I continued smoking our cigars and talking.

Suddenly, however, we heard Holmes’s voice.

“I think that you might offer me a cigar too,” he said.

We both jumped in our chairs.

There was Holmes sitting close to us with an air of quiet amusement.

“Holmes!” I exclaimed.

“You are here!

But where is the old man?”

“Here is the old man,”

said he, holding out a heap of white hair.

“Here he is—wig (假发) , whiskers (胡须) , eyebrows (眉毛) , and all. I thought my disguise was pretty good,

but I hardly expected that it would stand that test.

I have been working in that outfit all day,”said he, lighting his cigar.

“You see, a good many of the criminal classes begin to know me—

especially since our friend here took to publishing some of my cases.

Therefore, I need a disguise like this.

How is your case coming along?”

“It has all come to nothing.

I have had to release two of my prisoners,

and there is no evidence against the other two.”

“Never mind. We shall give you two others instead of them.

So long as you do exactly as I say, you are welcome to all the official credit.

Is that agreed?”

“Absolutely, if you will help me find the men.”

“Well, firstly I shall want a fast police-boat—a steam launch

—to be at the Westminster Stairs at seven o’clock.”

“That is easily managed.

There is always one about there,

but I can step across the road and telephone to make sure.”

“Then I shall want two strong men, in case of resistance.”

“There will be two or three in the boat.

What else?”

“When we secure the men we shall get the treasure.

I think that it would be a pleasure to my friend here to take the box around to the young lady to whom half of it rightfully (正当地) belongs.

Let her be the first to open it.

Eh, Watson?”

“It would be a great pleasure to me.”

“Rather an irregular proceeding,” said Jones, shaking his head.

“However, the whole thing is irregular,

and I suppose we must wink at it.

The treasure must afterwards be handed over to the authorities until after the official investigation.”

“Certainly. One other point.

I would like to have a few details about this matter from Jonathan Small himself.

There is no objection to my having an unofficial interview with him,

either here in my rooms or elsewhere,

as long as he is efficiently guarded?”

“Well, you are master of the situation.

I have had no proof yet of the existence of this Jonathan Small.

However, if you can catch him, I don’t see how I can refuse you an interview with him.”

“That is understood, then?”

“Perfectly. Is there anything else?”

“Only that I insist upon your dining with us.

It will be ready in half an hour.

I have oysters and two grouse (松鸡) , and a good white wine.

Watson, you have never yet recognized my merits as a housekeeper.”

Our meal was a merry one.

I have never known Holmes so brilliant.

He spoke on a quick succession of subjects,

handling each as though he had made a special study of it.

His bright humour marked the reaction from his black depression of the previous days.

Athelney Jones proved to be a sociable person when off duty,

and I was happy at the thought that we were nearing the end of our task,

and caught something of Holmes’s excitement.

None of us discussed during dinner the cause which had brought us together.

When the cloth was cleared, Holmes glanced at his watch.

“It is time we were off.

Have you a gun, Watson?”

“I have my old service-gun in my desk.”

“You had best take it, then.

I see that the cab is at the door—I ordered it for half past six.”

It was a little past seven before we reached the Westminster wharf,

and found our launch awaiting us.

Holmes eyed it critically.

“Is there anything to mark it as a police-boat?”

“Yes, that green lamp at the side.”

“Then take it off.”

The small change was made, we stepped on board, and the ropes were cast off.

Jones, Holmes, and I sat in the stern.

There was one man at the rudder (船舵) , one to tend the engines,

and two strong police inspectors.