Chapter 15
=================
On reaching the boundary wall Toby ran along,

whining eagerly, underneath its shadow,

and stopped finally in a corner hidden by a small tree.

Where the two walls joined, several bricks had been loosened and partly pulled out,

as though they had frequently been used as a ladder.

Holmes climbed up, and, taking the dog from me,

he dropped it over upon the other side.

“There’s the print of wooden-leg’s hand,”

he remarked, as I mounted up beside him.

“You see the slight mark of blood upon the white plaster.

What a lucky thing it is that we have had no rain since yesterday!

The scent will lie upon the road in spite of their twenty-eight hours’ start.”

I confess that I had my doubts when I reflected on the traffic which had passed along the London road in the interval.

But Toby never hesitated or swerved,

but waddled on in his peculiar rolling fashion.

Clearly, the strong smell of the tar rose high above all other competing scents.

“Do not imagine,” said Holmes,

“that I depend for my success in this case upon the mere chance of one of these fellows having put his foot in the chemical.

I have knowledge now which would enable me to trace (追踪) them in many different ways.

This, however, is the easiest and, since good luck has put it into our hands,

I should be much to blame if I neglected it.

It has, however,

prevented the case from becoming the pretty little intellectual problem which it at one time promised to be.

There might have been some credit to be gained out of it, but for this too obvious clue.”

“There is credit, and to spare,” said I.

“I assure you, Holmes,

that I marvel at the means by which you obtain your results in this case,

even more than I did in the Jefferson Hope murder.

The thing seems to me to be deeper and more inexplicable (费解的) .

How, for example, could you describe with such confidence the wooden-legged man?”

“It was simplicity itself.

Two officers who are in command of a convict-guard learn an important secret about buried treasure.

A map is drawn for them by an Englishman named Jonathan Small.

You remember that we saw the name upon the chart in Captain Morstan’s possession.

He had signed it in behalf of himself and his associates—

the sign of the four, as he somewhat dramatically called it.

Helped by this chart, the officers—

or one of them—

gets the treasure and brings it to England,

leaving, we will suppose, some condition under which he received it unfulfilled.

Now, then, why did not Jonathan Small get the treasure himself?

The answer is obvious.

The chart is dated at a time when Morstan was brought into close association with convicts.

Jonathan Small did not get the treasure because he and his associates were themselves convicts and could not get away.”

“But that is mere speculation,” said I.

“It is more than that.

It is the only theory which covers the facts.

Let us see how it fits in with later events.

Major Sholto remains at peace for some years, happy in the possession of his treasure.

Then he receives a letter from India which gives him a great fright.

What was that?”

“A letter to say that the men whom he had wronged had been set free.”

“Or had escaped.

That is much more likely,

for he would have known what their term of imprisonment was.

It would not have been a surprise to him.

What does he do then?

He guards himself against a wooden-legged man—

a white man, mark you, for he mistakes a white tradesman for him,

and actually fires a gun at him.

Now, only one white man’s name is on the chart.

The others are all Indian names.

Therefore, we may say with confidence that the wooden-legged man is identical with Jonathan Small.

Does the reasoning strike you as being faulty?”