Chapter 14
===================
Holmes was standing on the doorstep, with his hands in his pockets, smoking his pipe.

“Ah, you have him there!”

said he. “Good dog, then!

Athelney Jones has gone.

We have had an immense display of energy since you left.

He has arrested not only friend Thaddeus,

but the gatekeeper, the housekeeper, and the Indian servant.

We have the place to ourselves, except for a sergeant upstairs.

Leave the dog here, and come up.”

We tied Toby to the hall table, and climbed back up the stairs.

The room was as we had left it,

except that a sheet had been placed over the central figure.

A tired-looking police-sergeant was resting in the corner.

“I must kick off my boots and stockings,” said my companion.

“Please carry them down with you, Watson.

I am going to do a little climbing.

And dip my handkerchief into the tar.

That will do.

Now come up into the attic (阁楼) with me for a moment.”

We climbed up through the hole.

Holmes turned his light once more upon the footsteps in the dust.

“Take a look at these footmarks,” he said.

“Do you observe anything noteworthy (值得注意的) about them?”

“They belong,” I said, “to a child or a small woman.”

“Apart from their size, though.

Is there nothing else?”

“They appear to be much as other footmarks.”

“Not at all. Look here!

This is the print of a right foot in the dust.

Now I make one with my naked foot beside it.

What is the main difference?”

“Your toes are all squeezed together.

The other print has each toe distinctly divided.”

“Quite so. That is the point. Bear that in mind.

Now, would you kindly step over to the trap door and smell the edge of the woodwork?

I shall stay here, as I have this handkerchief in my hand.”

I did as he directed, and was instantly conscious of a strong tarry (焦油的) smell.

“That is where he put his foot in getting out.

If you can trace (追踪) him, I should think that Toby will have no difficulty.

Now run downstairs, release the dog, and try to find our climber.”

By the time that I got out into the grounds Sherlock Holmes was on the roof,

and I could see him crawling very slowly along the ridge.

I lost sight of him behind a stack of chimneys,

but he presently reappeared, and then vanished once more upon the opposite side.

When I made my way around there I found him seated at the edge of the roof.

“That you, Watson?” he cried.

“Yes.”

“This is the place. What is that black thing down there?”

“A water-barrel.”

“Is there a cover on it?”

“Yes.”

“No sign of a ladder?”

“No.”

“Damn the fellow! It’s a dangerous place.

Still, I ought to be able to climb down where he could climb up.

The water-pipe feels pretty firm. Here goes, anyhow.”

There was a shuffling (脚发出的摩擦声) of feet,

and the lantern began to come steadily down the side of the wall.

Then with a light spring he came on to the barrel, and from there to the earth.

“It was easy to follow him,”

he said, drawing on his shoes and socks.

“Tiles were loosened the whole way along, and in his hurry he had dropped this.

It confirms my diagnosis, as you doctor express it.”

The object which he held up to me was a small bag or pouch (小袋) woven out of coloured grasses and with a few cheap-looking beads strung around it.

In shape and size, it was not unlike a cigarette-case.

Inside were half a dozen thorns (荆刺) of dark wood, sharp at one end and rounded at the other,

like that which had struck Bartholomew Sholto.

“They are terrible things,” said he.

“Look out that you don’t prick yourself.

I’m delighted to have them, for most likely they are all he has.

There is the less fear of you or me finding one in our skin before long.

I would sooner face a bullet, myself. Are you ready for a six-mile walk, Watson?”

“Certainly,” I answered.

“Your leg will be OK?”

“Oh, yes.”

“Here you are, doggy!

Good old Toby!

Smell it, Toby, smell it!”

He pushed the tarry (涂了焦油的) handkerchief under the dog’s nose,

while the creature stood with its legs separated,

and sniffed it with a most comical (滑稽的) movement of its head,

like a connoisseur (品酒师) sniffing a famous wine.

Holmes then threw the handkerchief to a distance,

fastened a rope to the dog’s collar,

and led him to the foot of the water-barrel.

The creature instantly broke into a succession of high-pitched barks, and,

with his nose on the ground and his tail in the air,

ran off upon the trail at a pace which strained his leash (狗绳) and kept us at the top of our speed.


The east had been gradually whitening,

and we could now see some distance in the cold grey light.

The square, massive house, with its black, empty windows and high,

bare walls, towered up, sad and abandoned, behind us.

Our course led right across the grounds,

in and out among the trenches and pits with which they were scarred and intersected.

The whole place, with its scattered dirt-heaps and ill-grown bushes,

had an unlucky look which harmonized with the black tragedy which hung over it.