Chapter 18
================
“I would hire a launch and go down the river looking for the Aurora.”

“My dear fellow, it would be an enormous task.

She may have landed at any wharf on either side of the river between here and the sea.

Below the bridge there is a perfect maze (迷宫) of landing-places for miles.

It would take you days and days to look at them all, if you tried it alone.”

“Use the police, then.”

“No.I shall probably call Athelney Jones in at the last moment.

He is not a bad fellow,

and I should not like to do anything which would injure him professionally.

But I would like to work it out myself, now that we have gone so far.”

“Could we ask around among the boat-workers?”

“Worse and worse!

Our men would know that we were after them,

and they would be off out of the country.

As it is, they are likely enough to leave,

but as long as they think they are perfectly safe they will be in no hurry.

Jones’s energy will be of use to us there,

for his view of the case is sure to appear in the daily papers,

and the runaways will think that everyone is off on the wrong scent.”

“What are we to do, then?”

I asked, as we landed on the other side.

“Go home, have some breakfast, and get some sleep.

We may have to go out again tonight.

We will keep Toby, for he may be useful to us yet.”

It was between eight and nine o’clock now,

and I was conscious of a strong reaction after the excitements of the night.

I was limp and weary, befogged in mind and fatigued in body.

I had not the professional enthusiasm which carried my companion on,

nor could I look at the matter as a mere abstract intellectual problem.

As far as the death of Bartholomew Sholto went,

I had heard little good of him, and could not feel great hatred for his murderers.

The treasure, however, was a different matter.

That, or part of it, belonged rightfully (正当地) to Miss Morstan.

While there was a chance of recovering it,

I was ready to devote my life to that.

True, if I found it, it would probably put her forever beyond my reach.

Yet it would be a petty and selfish love which would be influenced by such a thought as that.

If Holmes could work to find the criminals,

I had a tenfold (十倍的) stronger reason to urge me on to find the treasure.

A bath at Baker Street freshened me up wonderfully.

When I came down to our room I found the breakfast ready and Homes pouring out the coffee.

“Here it is,” said he, laughing, and pointing to an open newspaper.

“The energetic Jones and the hard-working reporter have arranged it between them.

But you have had enough of the case.

Better have your ham and eggs first.”

I took the paper from him and read the article,

which was headed “Mysterious Business at Upper Norwood.”

About twelve o’clock last night [said the Standard] Mr. Bartholomew Sholto,

of Pondicherry Lodge, Upper Norwood,

was found dead in his room under circumstances which point to murder.

As far as we can learn,

no actual traces (痕迹) of violence were found upon Mr. Sholto’s person,

but a valuable collection of Indian jewels which the gentleman had inherited from his father has been carried off.

The discovery was first made by Mr. Sherlock Holmes and Dr. Watson,

who had called at the house with Mr. Thaddeus Sholto,

brother of the dead man.

By a piece of good fortune,

the well-known detective Mr. Athelney Jones happened to be at the Norwood Police Station,

and was on the scene within half an hour.

His trained and experienced abilities were at once directed towards the detection of the criminals,

with the happy result that the brother, Thaddeus Sholto,

has already been arrested, together with the housekeeper,

Mrs. Bernstone, an Indian servant named Lal Rao,

and a porter, or gatekeeper, named McMurdo.

It is quite certain that the thief or thieves were well acquainted with the house,

for Mr. Jones’s well-known technical knowledge and his powers of minute observation have enabled him

to prove conclusively (决定性地) that the criminals could not have entered by the door or by the window,

but must have gone across the roof of the building,

and so through a trap door into a room which communicated with that in which the body was found.

This proves that it was no mere random burglary.

The prompt and energetic action of the police shows the great advantage of the presence on such occasions of a single powerful and masterful mind.

“Isn’t it wonderful!” said Holmes, grinning over his coffee-cup.

“What do you think of it?”

“I think that we ourselves were lucky not to be arrested for the crime.”

“So do I.

I wouldn’t rely on our safety now,

if he should happen to have another of his attacks of energy.”

“Well, time to rest now.

Toby can eat the leftovers from our breakfast. Are you going to bed, Holmes?”

“No, I am not tired.

I never remember feeling tired by work, though idleness exhausts me completely.

I am going to smoke and to think over this queer business to which my fair client has introduced us.

If ever man had an easy task, this of ours ought to be.

Wooden-legged men are not so common, but the other man must, I should think, be absolutely unique.”

“That other man again!”