Chapter 16
================
“No: it is clear and concise.”

“Well, now, let us put ourselves in the place of Jonathan Small.

He comes to England with the double idea of regaining what he would consider to be his rights

and of having his revenge upon the man who had wronged him.

He found out where Sholto lived,

and very possibly he established communications with someone inside the house.

There is this servant, Lal Rao, whom we have not seen.

Mrs. Bernstone has told me that she does not trust him.

Small could not find out, however, where the treasure was hidden,

for no one ever knew, except the major and one faithful servant who had died.

Suddenly Small learns that the major is on his deathbed.

Desperate and fearing that the secret of the treasure would die with him,

he manages to get past of the guards,

makes his way to the dying man’s window,

and is only prevented from entering by the presence of his two sons.

He enters the room that night,

searches the major’s private papers in the hope of discovering some information about the treasure,

and finally leaves a sign of his visit in the writing upon the card.

He had doubtless planned beforehand (预先)

that,should he kill the major,

he would leave some such record upon the body as a sign that it was not a common murder, but,

from the point of view of the four associates, something in nature of an act of justice.

Strange ideas of this kind are common enough in the history of crime,

and often provide valuable clues leading to the criminal. Do you follow all this?”

“Very clearly.”

“Now, what could Jonathan Small do?

He could only continue to keep a secret watch upon the efforts made to find the treasure.

Possibly he leaves England and only comes back at intervals.

Then comes the discovery of the attic (阁楼) , and he is instantly informed of it.

We again trace (追踪) the presence of some ally in the household.

Jonathan, with his wooden leg,

cannot reach the high room of Bartholomew Sholto.

He takes with him, however, a rather curious associate, who gets over this difficulty,

but dips his naked foot into tar, whence (由此) comes Toby,

and a six-mile limp for a half-pay officer with a bad leg.”

“But it was the associate, and not Jonathan, who committed the crime.”

“Quite so.

And rather to Jonathan’s disgust,

to judge by the way he stamped about when he got into the room.

He bore no grudge (恶意) against Bartholomew Sholto,

and would have preferred if he could have been simply bound and gagged.

He did not wish to be condemned for murder.

There was no help for it, however:

the savage instincts of his companion had broken out,

and the poison had done its work:

so Jonathan Small left his card,

lowered the treasure-box to the ground,

and then went down himself.

That was the sequence of events as far as I can decipher (解释) them.

Of course as to his personal appearance he must be middle-aged,

and must be sunburned (晒伤的) after serving his prison time on a tropical island.

His height is easily calculated from the length of his steps,

and we know that he was bearded.

His hairiness (多毛特征) was the one point which impressed itself upon Thaddeus Sholto when he saw him at the window.

I don’t know that there is anything else.”

“The associate?”

“Ah, well, there is no great mystery in that.

But you will know all about it soon enough.

How sweet the morning air is!

See how that one little cloud floats like a pink feather.

Now the red edge of the sun pushes itself over the London cloud-bank.

It shines on a good many people, but on none, I dare bet,

who are on stranger business than you and I.

How small we feel with our petty ambitions and strivings in the presence of the great elemental forces of nature!

Jean Paul makes one curious but profound (意义深远的) remark—

that the chief proof of man’s real greatness lies in his perception of his own smallness.

It argues, you see, a power of comparison and of appreciation which is in itself a proof of nobility.

Did you bring your gun?”

“I have my stick.”

“It is just possible that we may need something of the sort if we get to their lair (巢穴) .

Jonathan I shall leave to you, but if the other turns nasty I shall shoot him dead.”

He took out his gun as he spoke,

and, having put in two bullets,

put it back into the right-hand pocket of his jacket.

We had during this time been following Toby down the half-rural roads which lead to the great city.

Now, however,

we were beginning to pass through streets where labourers and boat-workers were already on their way to work,

and poor women were taking down shutters and brushing doorsteps.

At the pubs business was just beginning,

and rough-looking men were emerging, rubbing their sleeves across their beards after their first beer of the day.

Strange dogs came up and stared wonderingly at us as we passed,

but Toby looked neither to the right nor to the left,

but trotted onwards with his nose to the ground and an occasional eager whine (发呜呜声) which spoke of a hot scent.


读完了，去做题 ❯
S