Chapter 17
================
Toby led us down to the river,

to the very edge of a small wooden wharf, and there stood whining,

looking out on the dark current beyond.

“We are out of luck,” said Holmes.

“They have taken to a boat here.”

There were several small boats in the water and on the edge of the wharf.

We took Toby around to each in turn, but,

though he sniffed earnestly, he made no sign.

Close to the wharf was a small brick house, with a sign outside.

“Mordecai Smith” was printed across it in large letters, and, underneath,

“Boats to hire by the hour or day.”

A second sign above the door said that a steam launch was kept—

a statement which was confirmed by a great pile of coke nearby.

Sherlock Holmes looked slowly round,

and his face assumed an ominous (懊丧的) expression.

“This looks bad,” said he.

“These fellows are cleverer than I expected.

They seem to have covered their tracks.

There has, I fear, been some advance planning here.”

He was approaching the door of the house, when it opened, and a little, curly-headed boy of six came running out, followed by a rather fat, red-faced woman with a large sponge in her hand.

“You come back and be washed, Jack,” she shouted. “If your father comes home and finds you like that, both of us will be in trouble!”

“Dear little chap!” said Holmes, strategically.

“What a rosy-cheeked young boy!

Now, Jack, is there anything you would like?”

The boy thought for a moment.

“I’d like a shilling (先令，英国货币) ,” he said.

“Nothing you would like better?”

“I’d like two shillings better,”

the intelligent boy answered, after some thought.

“Here you are, then! Catch! —An intelligent child, Mrs. Smith!”


“He is that, and cheeky (淘气的) too.

He gets almost too much for me to manage,

especially when my man is away for days at a time.”

“Away, is he?”

said Holmes, in a disappointed voice.

“I am sorry about that, for I wanted to speak to Mr. Smith.”

“He’s been away since yesterday morning sir, and, truth to tell,

I am beginning to feel frightened about him.

But if it was about a boat,sir,

you could talk to me.”

“I wanted to hire his steam launch.”

“Sir, it is in the steam launch that he has gone.

That’s what puzzles me,

for I know there aren’t enough coals in her to take her further than Woolwich.

If he’d been away in the barge (驳船) I’d have thought nothing of it,

for many a time a job has taken him as far as Gravesend,

and then if there was much to do there he might have stayed over.

But what good is a steam launch without coals?”

“He might have bought some at a wharf down the river.”

“He might, sir, but it wasn’t his way.

Many a time I’ve heard him complain the prices they charge just for a few bags.

Besides, I don’t like that wooden-legged man,

with his ugly face and his strange talk.

What did he want always coming around here?”

“A wooden-legged man?”

said Holmes, with mild surprise.

“Yes, sir, a brown, monkey-faced chap that’s called more than once for my old man.

It was him that woke him up yesterday night, and, what’s more,

my man knew he was coming,

for he had steam up in the launch.

I tell you honestly, sir, I don’t feel easy in my mind about it.”

“But, my dear Mrs. Smith,” said Holmes,

shrugging his shoulders, “you are frightening yourself about nothing.

How could you possibly tell that it was the wooden-legged man who came in the night?

I don’t quite understand how you can be so sure.”

“I knew his voice, sir.

He tapped at the window—about three it would be.

‘Show a leg, mate,’ said he, ‘time to get going.’

My old man woke up Jim—that’s my eldest son—and away they went,

without so much as a word to me. I could hear the wooden leg clacking on the stones.”

“And was this wooden-legged man alone?”

“Couldn’t say, I’m sure, sir. I didn’t hear anyone else.”

“I am sorry, Mrs. Smith, for I wanted a steam launch,

and I have heard good reports of the—Let me see, what is her name?”

“The Aurora, sir.”

“Ah! She’s not that old green launch with a yellow line, very wide?”

“No, indeed. She’s as narrow a little thing as any on the river.

She’s been fresh painted, black with two red streaks.”

“Thanks.

I hope that you will hear soon from Mr. Smith.

I am going down the river;

and if I should see anything of the Aurora I shall let him know that you are uneasy.

A black funnel (烟筒) , you say?”

“No, sir. Black with a white band.”

“Ah, of course. It was the sides which were black.

Good morning, Mrs. Smith.”

“Now, Watson,” he said to me,

“let us see if that boatman over there will take us across the river.”

“The main thing with people of that sort,”

said Holmes, as we sat in the boat,

“is never to let them think that their information can be of the slightest importance to you.

If you do, they will instantly shut up like an oyster.

If you listen to them under protest, as it were,

you are very likely to get what you want.”

“Our plan now seems pretty clear,” said I.

“What would you do, then?”