Chapter 12
==================
“Confirms it in every respect,”

said the fat detective, pompously (傲慢地) .

“House is full of Indian curiosities.

Thaddeus brought the tool up, and if this thorn (荆刺) be poisonous,

Thaddeus may as well have made murderous use of it as any other man.

The card is probably just to confuse the police.

The only question is, how did he depart?

Ah, of course, here is a hole in the roof.”

With great activity, considering his bulk,

he sprang up the steps and squeezed through into the attic (阁楼) ,

and immediately afterwards we heard his voice shouting that he had found the trap door.

“He can find something,”

remarked Holmes, shrugging his shoulders.

“He has occasional moments of reason.

As the French say, ‘The most inconvenient idiots are those who have a little intelligence!’”

“You see!” said Athelney Jones, coming down the steps again.

“Facts are better than mere theories, after all.

My view of the case is confirmed.

There is a trap door leading to the roof, and it is partly open.”

“It was I who opened it.”

“Oh, indeed! You did notice it, then?” He seemed a little disappointed.

“Well, whoever noticed it, it shows how our gentleman got away. Inspector!”

“Yes, sir,” from the passage.

“Ask Mr. Sholto to step this way.

Mr. Sholto, it is my duty to inform you that anything which you may say will be used against you.

I arrest you in the queen’s name as being concerned in the death of your brother.”

“There, now! Didn’t I tell you!”

cried the poor little man, throwing out his hands,

and looking from one to the other of us.

“Don’t trouble yourself about it, Mr. Sholto,” said Holmes. “I think

that I can promise to clear you of the charge.”

“Don’t promise too much, Mr. Theorist, don’t promise too much!”

snapped the detective.

“You may find it a harder matter than you think.”

“Not only will I clear him, Mr. Jones,

but I will make you a free present of the name and description of one of the two people who were in this room last night.

His name, I have every reason to believe, is Jonathan Small.

He is a poorly-educated man, small, active, with his right leg missing,

and wearing a wooden stump which is worn away upon the inner side.

His left boot has a coarse, square-toed sole,

with an iron band around the heel.

He is a middle-aged man, much sunburned (晒黑的) , and has been a convict.

These few indications may be of some assistance to you,

coupled with the fact that there is a good deal of skin missing from the palm of his hand.

The other man—”

“Ah! The other man?” asked Athelney Jones, in a sneering voice,

but impressed none the less, as I could easily see,

by the precision of the other’s manner.

“Is a rather unusual person,” said Sherlock Holmes, turning upon his heel.

“I hope before very long to be able to introduce you to the pair of them.

A word with you, Watson.”

He led me out to the head of the stair.

“All this,” he said,

“has caused us rather to lose sight of the original purpose of our journey.”

“I have just been thinking so,” I answered.

“It is not right that Miss Morstan should remain in this house.”

“No. You must escort her home.

She lives with Mrs. Cecil Forrester, in Lower Camberwell, so it is not very far.

I will wait for you here if you will drive out again. Or perhaps you are too tired?”

“By no means. I don’t think I could rest until I know more of this business.

I have seen something of the rough side of life,

but this quick succession of strange surprises tonight has shaken my nerve completely.

I should like, however, to see the matter through with you, now that I have got so far.”

“Your presence will be of great service to me,” he answered.

“We shall work the case out independently,

and leave this fellow Jones to come up with any theory he chooses.

When you have dropped Miss Morstan off,

I would like you to go on to No. 3 Pinchin Lane,

down near the water’s edge at Lambeth.

The third house on the right-hand side;

Sherman is the name. Tell him—mentioning my name—

that I want Toby at once, and bring Toby back with you.”

“A dog, I suppose.”

“Yes, an ugly dog, but with a most amazing sense of smell.

I would rather have Toby’s help than that of the whole detective force of London.”

“I shall bring him, then,” said I. “It is one now.

I ought to be back before three, if I can get a fresh horse.”

“And I,” said Holmes,

“shall see what I can learn from Mrs. Bernstone, and from the Indian servant,

who sleeps in the next attic (阁楼) .

Then I shall study the great Jones’s methods,

and listen to his not too subtle insults. As Goethe says,

‘People always mock what they cannot understand. ’ ”
