Chapter 21
=============
“Where to?” asked Jones.

“To the Tower.

Tell them to stop opposite Jacobson’s Yard.”

Our craft was evidently a very fast one.

Holmes smiled with satisfaction as we passed a river steamer and left her behind us.

“We ought to be able to catch anything on the river,” he said.

“Well, hardly that. But there are not many launches to beat us.”

“We shall have to catch the Aurora, and she is known for being fast.

I would like to explain my reasoning to you, Watson, now that we have a little time.”

“Please go ahead.”

“Well, after I had finished my chemical analysis,

I came back to our problem of the Sholtos,

and thought the whole matter out again.

I concluded that since Small had certainly been in London some time—

as we had evidence that he maintained a continual watch over Pondicherry Lodge—

he would need some time to arrange his affairs.

That was the balance of probability, at any rate.”

“It seems to me to be a little weak,” said I.

“It is more probable that he had arranged his affairs before ever he set out upon his expedition.”

“No, I hardly think so.

This lair (巢穴) of his would be too valuable a retreat for him to give it up until he was sure that he could do without it.

But a second consideration struck me.

Jonathan Small must have felt that the peculiar appearance of his companion would cause people to associate him with this Norwood tragedy.

He was quite smart enough to see that.

He would want to get back before it was broad daylight.

Now, it was past three o’clock, according to Mrs. Smith, when they got the boat.

People would be about in an hour or so:

therefore, they did not go very far.

They paid Smith well to keep quiet, reserved his launch for the final escape,

and hurried to their lodgings with the treasure-box.

In a couple of nights, when they had time to see what view the newspapers took,

and whether there was any suspicion,

they would make their way under cover of darkness to some ocean-going ship,

where no doubt they had already arranged for boat tickets to America or the Colonies.”

“But the launch? They could not have taken that to their lodgings.”

“Quite so.

I reasoned that the launch must be quite near, in spite of its invisibility.

I then put myself in the place of Small.

He would probably consider that to send back the launch

or to keep it at a wharf would make pursuit easy if the police did happen to get on his track.

How, then, could he conceal the launch and yet have her available when wanted?

I wondered what I should do myself if I were in his shoes.

I could only think of one way of doing it. I might hand the launch over to some boat-builder or repairer,

with directions to make a small repair to her.

She would then be removed to his shed or yard,

and so be effectively hidden,

while at the same time being available at a few hours’ notice.”

“That seems simple enough.”

“I started at once in this seaman’s outfit and asked at all the boat repair yards down the river.

At the sixteenth—Jacobson’s—

I learned that the Aurora had been handed over to them two days ago by a wooden-legged man for some small repairs.

‘There she is, with the red streaks,’

a worker told me.

Then Mordecai Smith, the owner, came down, drunk.

I would not have known him, but he shouted out his name and the name of his launch.

‘I want her tonight at eight o’clock exactly,’said he,

‘because I have two gentlemen who won’t be kept waiting.’

They had obviously paid him well, for he was giving shillings out to the men.

I followed him some distance,

but he went into a pub, so I went back to the yard.

I met a boy who sometimes runs errands (差使) for me on the way,

and asked him to watch the launch.

He is to stand at the water’s edge and wave his handkerchief to us when they start.

We shall be waiting, and I trust that we will take both the men and the treasure.”

“You have planned it all very neatly,

whether they are the right men or not,”said Jones,

“but I would have had police in Jacobson’s Yard,

and arrested them when they came down.”

“Which would have been never.

This man Small is a pretty clever fellow.

He would send someone on ahead, and if anything made him suspicious,

stay away for another week.”

“But why not follow Mordecai Smith?” said I.

“The criminals won’t have told Smith where they live.

No, I have thought it over, and this plan is best.”

When we reached Jacobson’s Yard Holmes took out a pair of binoculars (双筒望远镜) .

“I see the boy,” he remarked, “but no sign of a handkerchief.”

Suddenly Holmes cried out,

“The Aurora!

And going like the devil (恶魔) ! Full speed ahead, engineer.

Follow that launch with the yellow light.

I shall never forgive myself if she proves too fast for us!”

She had slipped unseen through the yard-entrance and passed behind two or three small boats,

so that she had got her speed up before we saw her.

Now she was going at a tremendous rate. Jones shook his head.

“She is very fast,”he said.

“I doubt if we shall catch her.”

“We must catch her!”

cried Holmes, between his teeth.

“Heap it on, stokers! If we burn the boat, we must have them!”