Chapter 26
================
“ ‘This pretended merchant, who travels under the name of Achmet,

is now in the city of Agra,

and desires to gain his way into the fort.

He has with him as traveling-companion my foster-brother Dost Akbar,

who knows his secret.

Dost Akbar has promised this night to lead him to a side-gate of the fort,

and has chosen this one for his purpose.

The place is lonely, and none shall know of his coming.

The merchant Achmet shall be no more,

but the great treasure of the rajah (拉甲，印度酋长) shall be divided among us.

What say you to it, Sahib?’

“In Worcestershire the life of a man seems a great and a sacred thing;

but it is very different when there is fire and blood all round you and death is everywhere.

I did not care whether Achmet the merchant lived or died,

but I thought of what I might do in my home country with the treasure.

I made my decision.

Abdullah Khan, however, thinking that I hesitated, pressed the matter more closely.

“ ‘Consider, Sahib,’ said he,

‘that if this man is taken by the army,

he will be killed and his jewels taken by the government.

If we take them, there will be enough to make every one of us rich men.

No one will know about it, for here we are on our own.

Say again, then, Sahib, whether you are with us, or if we must treat you as an enemy.’

“ ‘I am with you heart and soul,’ said I.

“ ‘It is well,’ he answered, handing me back my rifle.

‘You see that we trust you, for your word, like ours, is not to be broken.

We need now only wait for my brother and the merchant.’

“ ‘Does your brother know what you plan to do?’ I asked.

“ ‘The plan is his. We will go to the gate and share the watch with Mahomet Singh.’

“The rain was still falling steadily, for it was just the beginning of the wet season.

A deep moat (护城河) lay in front of the gate,

but the water was in places nearly dried up,

and it could easily be crossed.

Suddenly my eye caught the glint (火光) of a shaded lantern at the other side of the moat (护城河) .

It vanished and then appeared again, coming slowly in our direction.

“ ‘Here they are!’ I exclaimed.

“ ‘You will challenge him, Sahib, as usual,’

whispered Abdullah.

‘Give him no cause for fear.

We shall do the rest while you stay here on guard.

“The light came towards us:

I could see two dark figures scramble down the sloping bank,

splash through the mud,

and climb half-way up to the gate, before I challenged them.

“ ‘Who goes there?’ said I, in a low voice.

“ ‘Friends,’ came the answer.

I uncovered my lantern and threw a flood of light upon them.

The first was an enormous Sikh,

with a black beard which came nearly down to his waist.

The other was a little, fat, round fellow, with a great yellow turban (头巾) ,

and a bundle in his hand, done up in a cloth.

He was shaking with fear, like a mouse when he ventures out from his hole.

I hated to think of killing him, but I thought of the treasure,

and my heart hardened within me.

“ ‘Your protection, Sahib,’ he panted (喘息) , ‘for the unhappy merchant Achmet.

I have traveled far to seek the shelter of the fort at Agra.

I have been robbed and beaten because I have been the friend of the Company.

It is a blessed night this when I am safe once more—I and my poor possessions.’

“ ‘What have you in the bundle?’ I asked.

“ ‘An iron box,’ he answered, ‘which contains one or two family items of no value.

Yet I am not a beggar; and I shall reward you, young Sahib, and your leader also,

if he will give me the shelter I ask.’

“The more I looked at his fat, frightened face,

the harder did it seem that we should kill him in cold blood.

It was best to get it over.

“ ‘Take him to the main guard,’ said I.

The two Sikhs closed in upon him on each side,

and the giant walked behind, while they marched in through the dark gateway (门道) .

Never was a man so surrounded with death.

I remained at the gateway (门道) with the lantern.

“I could hear the sound of their footsteps sounding through the lonely corridors.

Suddenly it ceased, and I heard voices, and a scuffle (扭打) , with the sound of blows.

A moment later there came, to my horror, a rush of footsteps coming in my direction,

with the loud breathing of a running man.

I turned my lantern—there was the fat man, running like the wind,

and close at his heels the great black-bearded Sikh,

with a knife flashing in his hand.

I have never seen a man run so fast as that little merchant,

and I could see that if he once passed me and got outside he would save himself yet.

The thought of his treasure turned me hard and bitter:

I stuck my rifle between his legs as he raced past,

and he rolled over like a shot rabbit.

Before he could stagger to his feet the Sikh buried his knife twice in his side.

You see, gentlemen, that I am keeping my promise.

I am telling you everything just exactly as it happened,

whether it is in my favor or not.”
