Chapter 1
================
To Sherlock Holmes she is always the woman.

It was not that he felt anything like love for Irene Adler.

All emotions, and that one particularly, were hateful to his cold, precise but admirably balanced mind.

As a lover he would have been in a false position, since he never spoke of the softer passions, except with a sneer.

Those passions were admirable things for the observer—excellent for revealing men’s motives and actions.

But to his own delicate and finely adjusted temperament they could only be a distraction, which might throw a doubt upon all his mental results.

Grit (沙粒) in a sensitive instrument, or a crack in one of his high-power lenses, would not be more disturbing than a strong emotion in a nature such as his.

And yet there was but one woman to him, and that woman was Irene Adler.

I had seen little of Holmes lately.

My marriage had caused us to drift apart.

My own complete happiness, and the domestic interests which rise up around the man who first finds himself master of his own house, absorbed all my attention.

Holmes remained in our lodgings in Baker Street, buried among his old books.

He was still, as ever, deeply attracted by the study of crime, and used his immense abilities and extraordinary powers of observation in following up those clues.

And clearing up those mysteries, which had been abandoned as hopeless by the official police.

From time to time I heard some vague accounts of his doings in the newspapers; other than that, I knew little of my former friend and companion.

One night I was returning from a journey to a patient (for I had now returned to medical practice) , when my way led me through Baker Street.

As I passed the well-remembered house in which I first met my wife, I felt a keen desire to see Holmes again, and to know how he was using his extraordinary powers.

His rooms were brilliantly lit, and, even as I looked up, I saw the outline of his tall, thin figure.

He was pacing the room swiftly, eagerly, with his head sunk upon his chest and his hands clasped (扣紧) behind him.

To me, who knew his every mood and habit, his attitude and manner told their own story.

He was hot upon the scent of some new problem.

I rang the bell and was shown up to the rooms that I had shared with him.

His manner was not effusive (热情的) .

It seldom was; but he was glad, I think, to see me.

With hardly a word spoken, but with a kindly eye, he waved me to an armchair and offered me a cigar.

Then he stood before the fire and looked me over in his usual attentive way.

“Marriage suits you,” he remarked.

“I think, Watson, that you are seven and a half pounds heavier since last I saw you.”

“Seven!” I answered.

“Just a little more, I think, Watson. And working as a doctor again, I notice. You did not tell me that you were going back to work.”

“How do you know?”

“I see it, I deduce it.

How do I know that you have been getting yourself very wet lately, and that you have a most clumsy and careless servant girl?”

“My dear Holmes,” said I, “this is too much. You would certainly have been burned, if you had lived a few centuries ago.

It is true that I had a country walk on Thursday and came home in a dreadful mess, but as I have changed my clothes I can’t imagine how you deduce it.

As to Mary Jane, she is hopeless, and my wife has told her to leave, but there, again, I fail to see how you work it out.”

He chuckled to himself.

“It is simplicity itself,” said he,

“my eyes tell me that on the inside of your left shoe, just where the firelight strikes it, the leather is marked by six almost parallel cuts.

Obviously they have been caused by someone who has very carelessly scraped round the edges of the shoe in order to remove dried mud from it.

Hence (因此) my double deduction (推测) that you had been out in bad weather, and that you have a servant who does not know her job.

And if a gentleman walks into my rooms smelling of iodine (碘酒) , with a bulge (凸出部分) on the right side of his hat to show where he keeps his stethoscope (听诊器) ,

I would be stupid, indeed, if I do not know him to be an active member of the medical profession.”

I could not help laughing at the ease with which he explained his process of deduction (推测) .

“When I hear your reasons,” I remarked, “it always seems so simple that I could easily do it myself,

though I am always baffled until you explain your process.

And yet I believe that my eyes are as good as yours.”

“Quite so,” he answered.

“You see, but you do not observe.

For example, you have frequently seen the steps which lead up from the hall to this room.”

“Frequently.”

“How often?”

“Hundreds of times.”

“How many steps are there?”

“How many? I don’t know.”

“Quite so! You have seen, but not observed.

Now, I know that there are seventeen steps, because I have both seen and observed.

By the way, since you are interested in these little problems, and since you have been kind enough to write about one or two of my experiences,

you may be interested in this.”

He threw over a sheet of thick, pink note-paper which had been lying open upon the table. “It came by the last post,” said he. “Read it aloud.”

The note was undated, and without either signature or address.

“A gentleman desires to consult you upon a matter of the very greatest importance, at a quarter to eight tonight [it said].

Your recent services to one of the royal houses of Europe have shown that you are one who may safely be trusted with such matters.

This account of you we have from all quarters received.

Be in your rooms then at that hour, and do not be offended if your visitor wears a mask.

“This is indeed a mystery,” I remarked.

“What do you imagine that it means?”

“I have no data yet. It is a major mistake to theorize (下定论) before one has data.

Without noticing it, one begins to twist facts to suit theories, instead of theories to suit facts.

But what do you deduce from the note itself?”