Chapter 30
===================
I came at once and had a look at the place,

but I could not see how with my wooden leg I was to make my way up to it.

I learned, however, about a trap door in the roof,

and also about Mr. Sholto’s supper-hour.

It seemed to me that I could manage the thing easily through Tonga.

I brought him out with me with a long rope wound round his waist.

He could climb like a cat, and he soon made his way through the roof, but,

as ill luck would have it, Bartholomew Sholto was still in the room, to his cost.

Tonga thought he had done something very clever in killing him,

for when I came up by the rope I found him marching about as proud as a peacock (孔雀) .

He was so surprised when I started whipping and cursing him.

I took the treasure-box and let it down, and then slid down myself,

having first left the sign of the four upon the table,

to show that the jewels had come back at last to those who had most right to them.

Tonga then pulled up the rope, closed the window, and made off the way that he had come.

“I don’t know that I have anything else to tell you.

I had heard a sailor speak of the speed of Smith’s launch the Aurora,

so I thought she would be a useful boat for our escape.

I made an agreement with old Smith, and was to give him a big sum if he got us safe to our ship.

He knew, no doubt, that all was not strictly legitimate, but he was not in our secrets.

All this is the truth, and if I tell it to you, gentlemen,

it is not to amuse you—for you have not done me a very good turn—

but it is because I believe the best defense I can make is just to hold back nothing,

but let all the world know how badly I have myself been treated by Major Sholto,

and how innocent I am of the death of his son.”

“A very remarkable account,” said Sherlock Holmes.

“A fitting end to an extremely interesting case.

There is nothing at all new to me in the latter part of your narrative (叙述) ,

except that you brought your own rope.

That I did not know.

By the way, I had hoped that Tonga had lost all his darts (毒镖) ;

yet he managed to shoot one at us in the boat.”

“He had lost them all, sir, except the one which was in his blow-pipe at the time.”

“Ah, of course,” said Holmes. “I had not thought of that.”

“Is there any other point which you would like to ask about?”

asked the convict, in a friendly manner.

“I think not, thank you,” my companion answered.

“Well, Holmes,” said Athelney Jones,

“duty is duty, and I shall feel more at ease when we have our storyteller here safe under lock and key.

The cab still waits, and there are two inspectors downstairs.

I am much obliged to you both for your assistance.

Of course you will be wanted at the trial. Good night to you.”

“Good night, gentlemen both,” said Jonathan Small.

“Well, and there is the end of our little drama,” I remarked,

after we had set some time smoking in silence.

“I fear that it may be the last investigation in which I shall have the chance of studying your methods.

Miss Morstan has done me the honor of accepting me as her future husband.”

He gave a most dismal (无可奈何的) groan.

“I feared as much,” said he. “I really cannot congratulate you.”

I was a little hurt.

“Have you any reason to be dissatisfied with my choice?” I asked.

“Not at all.

I think she is one of the most charming young ladies I ever met,

and might have been most useful in such work as we have been doing.

But love is an emotional thing,

and whatever is emotional is opposed to that true cold reason which I place above all things.

I should never marry myself, lest (以免) I bias my judgment.”

“I trust,” said I, laughing, “that my judgment may survive the ordeal (考验) .

But you look weary.”

“Yes, the reaction is already upon me.

I shall be as limp as a rag for a week.

By the way, Jones told me they had a confederate (同伙) in the house—

none other than Lal Rao, the servant;

so Jones actually has the undivided honor of having caught one fish in his great haul.”

“The division seems rather unfair,” I remarked.

“You have done all the work in this business.

I get a wife out of it, Jones gets the credit, what remains for you?”

“For me,” said Sherlock Holmes, “there is always the next case.”