Chapter 27
===============
I had now conceived the utmost horror of the man,

not only for this cold-blooded business in which he had been concerned,

but even more for the casual and heartless way in which he told it.

Whatever punishment was in store for him,

he might expect no sympathy from me.

Sherlock Holmes and Jones sat with their hands upon their knees,

deeply interested in the story, but with the same disgust written upon their faces.

He may have noticed it,

for there was a touch of defiance in his voice and manner as he continued.

“It was my life or his once he was in the fort.

If he had got out, the whole business would come to light,

and I should have been found guilty and shot as likely as not,

for people were not very merciful at a time like that.”

“Go on with your story,” said Holmes, shortly.

“Well, we carried him in, Abdullah, Akbar, and I.

Though short, he was heavy.

Mahomet Singh was left to guard the door.

We took him to a place which the Sikhs had already prepared.

It was some distance off, where a winding passage leads to a great empty hall.

The earth floor had sunk in at one place, making a natural grave,

so we left Achmet the merchant there,

having first covered him over with loose bricks.

This done, we all went back to the treasure.

“It lay where he had dropped it.

The box was the same which now lies open upon your table.

A key was attached by a cord to that carved handle upon the top.

We opened it,

and the light of the lantern shone upon a collection of jewels such as I had dreamed about all my life.

It was blinding to look upon them.

We took them all out and made a list of them.

There were one hundred and forty-three perfect diamonds,

over six hundred other precious stones,

and nearly three hundred very fine pearls,

twelve of which were set in a gold crown.

By the way, these last had been taken out of the chest and were not there when I recovered it.

“After we had counted our treasures,

we put them back into the chest and carried them to the gateway (门道) to show to Mahomet Singh.

Then we agreed to hide our loot (战利品，宝物) in a safe place until the country should be at peace again,

and then to divide it equally among ourselves.

There was no use dividing it at present,

for if jewels of such value were found upon us it would cause suspicion,

and there was no privacy in the fort.

We carried the box, therefore,

into the same hall where we had buried the body, and there,

under certain bricks in the best-preserved wall,

we made a hollow and put our treasure.

We made careful note of the place, and next day I drew four plans,

one for each of us, and put the sign of the four of us at the bottom,

for we had sworn that we should each always act for all.

That is an oath that I swear I have never broken.

“Well, you know the history of the Indian rebellion.

The rebels were defeated, and we four were hoping to escape with our shares of the loot (战利品) .

But our hopes were shattered by our being arrested as the murderers of Achmet.

“It happened like this.

The rajah (拉甲，印度酋长) had sent another servant to spy upon the first.

This second man followed Achmet like his shadow. He went after him that night and saw him pass through the doorway.

When he entered the fort the next day,

he could find no trace (踪迹) of Achmet.

He spoke about it to a sergeant, who told the commander.

A thorough search was quickly made, and the body was discovered.

Thus at the very moment that we thought that all was safe we were all four seized and brought to trial on a charge of murder.

All four of us were imprisoned for life.

“Not a word about the jewels came out at the trial, for the rajah (拉甲，印度酋长) had been deposed and driven out of India:

so no one had any particular interest in them.

There we were all four with almost no chance of ever being free again,

while we each held a secret which might have put each of us in a palace if we could only have made use of it.

It was enough to make a man eat his heart out to have to put up with all kinds of abuse,

to have rice to eat and water to drink,

with a fortune waiting for him outside.

It might have driven me mad;

but I was always a pretty stubborn one, so I just held on and waited for my time.