Chapter 25
=================
“The river washes along the front of the old fort, and so protects it,

but on the sides and behind there are many doors,

and these had to be guarded, of course.

We organized a central guard-house in the middle of the fort,

and left one white man and two or three natives at each gate.

I was chosen to take charge during certain hours of the night of a small isolated door on the southwest side of the fort.

Two Sikh soldiers were placed under my command,

and I was told if anything went wrong to fire my rifle.

As the guard was a good two hundred yards away, however,

and as the space between was cut up into a maze (迷宫) of passages and corridors,

I had great doubts as to whether they could arrive in time to be of any use in case of an actual attack.

“For two nights I kept the watch with my Sikhs.

They were tall, fierce-looking men, Mahomet Singh and Abdullah Khan by name.

They could talk English pretty well,

but they preferred to talk together in their own language.

Every two hours the officer of the night used to come round to all the posts,

to make sure that all was well.

“The third night of my watch was dark, windy, and rainy.

I tried again and again to make my Sikhs talk, but without much success.

At two in the morning the rounds passed,

and broke for a moment the weariness of the night. I took out my pipe,

and put down my rifle to strike the match.

In an instant the two Sikhs were upon me.

One of them snatched my rifle up and pointed it at my head,

while the other held a great knife to my throat and swore he would kill me if I moved a step.

“My first thought was they were rebels,

and that this was the beginning of an attack.

I opened my mouth to give a scream to warn the main guard.

The man who held me seemed to know my thoughts, for he whispered,

‘Don’t make a noise. The fort is safe enough.

There are no rebels on this side of the river.’ There was the ring of truth in what he said,

and I knew that if I raised my voice I was a dead man.

So I waited to see what they wanted from me.

“ ‘Listen to me, Sahib,’

said the taller and fiercer of the pair, the one whom they called Abdullah Khan.

‘Either you are heart and soul with us on your oath on the cross of the Christians,

or your body this night shall be thrown into the ditch.

There is no middle way.

Which is it to be, death or life?

We can only give you three minutes to decide,

for all must be done before the rounds come again.’

“ ‘How can I decide?’ said I.

‘You have not told me what you want of me.

But I tell you now that if it is anything against the safety of the fort I will have nothing to do with it,

so you can kill me now.’

“ ‘It is nothing against the fort,’ said he.

‘We only ask you to do what you British came here for—to be rich.

If you will be one of us this night,

we will swear to you upon the naked knife,

and by the threefold (三倍的) oath which no Sikh was ever known to break,

that you shall have your fair share of the loot (战利品) .

A quarter of the treasure shall be yours.’

“ ‘But what is the treasure, then?’ I asked.

“ ‘Will you swear,’ said he, ‘by the bones of your father,

by the honor of your mother, by the cross of your faith,

to raise no hand and speak no word against us, either now or afterwards?’

“ ‘I will swear it,’ I answered,

‘provided that the fort is not endangered.’

“ ‘Then my comrade and I will swear that you shall have a quarter of the treasure which shall be equally divided among the four of us.’

“ ‘There are only three of us,’ said I.

“ ‘No, Dost Akbar must have his share.

We can tell the tale to you while we await them.

I know that an oath is binding upon a Feringhee,

and that we may trust you.

Had you been a lying Hindu,

though you had sworn by all the gods in their false temples,

your blood would have been upon the knife,

and your body in the water.

But the Sikh knows the Englishman,

and the Englishman knows the Sikh.

“ ‘There is a rajah (拉甲，印度酋长) in the northern provinces who has much wealth,

though his lands are small.

When the troubles broke out he would be friends both with the lion and the tiger—

with the rebels and with the Company’s Raj.

Soon, however, it seemed to him that the white men’s day was over,

for through all the land he could hear of nothing but of their death and their overthrow (瓦解) .

Yet, being a careful man, he made such plans that half at least of his treasure should be left to him.

The gold and silver he kept by him in the treasure-rooms of his palace,

but the most precious stones and the best pearls that he had he put in an iron box,

and sent it by a trusty servant who, traveling as a merchant,

should take it to the fort at Agra,

there to lie until the land is at peace.

Thus, if the rebels won he would have his money,

but if the Company won, he would have his jewels.

Having thus divided his treasure, he supported the rebels.

By doing this, mark you, Sahib, his property becomes the due of those who have been true to their masters.
