Chapter 23
================
“We shall be at Vauxhall Bridge presently,” said Athelney Jones,

“and we shall land you, Dr. Watson, with the treasure-box.

I need hardly tell you that I am taking a very grave responsibility upon myself in doing this.

It is most irregular;

but of course an agreement is an agreement.

I must, however, as a matter of duty, send an inspector with you,

since you have so valuable an item.

It is a pity there is no key, that we may make an inventory first.

You will have to break it open.

Bring the box back with you to the Baker Street rooms.

You will find us there, on our way to the station.”

They landed me at Vauxhall, with my heavy iron box,

and a friendly policeman as my companion.

A quarter of an hour’s drive brought us to Mrs. Cecil Forrester’s house,

and a servant let me in, leaving the obliging policeman in the cab.

Miss Morstan was seated by the open window.

The soft light of a shaded lamp fell upon her as she leaned back in the chair,

playing over her sweet, sad face, and highlighting the rich coils of her luxuriant hair.

At the sound of my footsteps she sprang to her feet,

and her cheeks blushed with surprise and pleasure.

“I heard a cab drive up,” she said.

“I thought that Mrs. Forrester had come back very early,

but I never dreamed that it might be you.

What news have you brought me?”

“I have brought something better than news,”said I,

putting down the box upon the table and speaking lightly,

though my heart was heavy within me.

“I have brought you a fortune.”

She glanced at the iron box.

“Is that the treasure, then?”

she asked, calmly enough.

“Yes, this is the great Agra treasure.

Half of it is yours and half is Thaddeus Sholto’s.

You will have a couple of hundred thousand pounds each.

The interest will be ten thousand pounds a year.

You will be one of the richest young ladies in England. Isn’t it wonderful?”

I think that I must have been rather overacting my delight,

and that she detected some insincerity (伪善，不真诚) in my congratulations,

for she glanced at me curiously.

“If I have it,” said she, “I owe it to you.”

“No, no,” I answered, “not to me, but to my friend Sherlock Holmes.

I could never have followed up a clue which has challenged even his analytical genius.

As it was, we very nearly lost it at the last moment.”

“Please sit down and tell me all about it, Dr. Watson,” said she.

I told her briefly what had happened since I had seen her last—

the discovery of the Aurora, and the wild chase down the Thames.

She listened with parted lips and shining eyes to the story of our adventures.

When I spoke of the dart (毒针) which had so narrowly missed us,

she turned so white that I feared that she was about to faint.

“It is nothing,” she said, as I hurried to pour her out some water.

“It was a shock to me to hear that I had placed my friends in such horrible danger.”

“That is all over,” I answered.

“Let us turn to the treasure.

I got permission to bring it with me, thinking that it would interest you to be the first to see it.”

“It would be of the greatest interest to me,”she said.

There was no eagerness in her voice, however.

It had struck her, doubtless,

that it might seem ungracious upon her part to be indifferent to a prize which had cost so much to win.

“What a pretty box!”she said,

stooping over it.

“This is Indian work; I suppose?”

“Yes; it is Benares metal-work.”

“And so heavy!”she exclaimed, trying to raise it.

“The box alone must be of some value.

Where is the key?”

“Small threw it into the Thames,”I answered.

“I must borrow Mrs. Forrester’s poker.”

I stuck the poker behind the lock and twisted it outward.

The lock sprang open with a loud snap.

With trembling fingers I flung back the lid.

We both stood gazing in astonishment.

The box was empty!

It was massive, well made, and solid, built to carry things of great value,

but it was absolutely and completely empty.


“The treasure is lost,” said Miss Morstan, calmly.

As I listened to the words and realized what they meant,

a great shadow seemed to pass from my soul.

I did not know how this Agra treasure had weighed me down,

until it was finally removed.

It was selfish, no doubt,

but I only realized that the golden barrier was gone from between us.

“Thank God!”

I said from my very heart.

She looked at me with a quick,questioning smile.

“Why do you say that?” She asked.

“Because you are within my reach again,”

I said, taking her hand. She did not withdraw it.

“Because I love you, Mary, as truly as ever a man loved a woman.

Because this treasure, these riches, sealed my lips.

Now that they are gone I can tell you how I love you.”

“Then I say, ‘Thank God,’ too,” she whispered, as I drew her to my side.

Whoever had lost a treasure, I knew that night that I had gained one.