Chapter 28
=================
“At last it seemed to me to have come.

I was moved from Agra to Madras, and from there to Blair Island in the Andaman.

There are very few white prisoners at this settlement, and, as I had behaved well from the first,

I soon found myself a sort of privileged person.

I was given a hut in Hope Town, which is a small place on the slopes of Mount Harriet,

and I was left pretty much to myself.

It is a dreary (令人发闷的) , unhealthy place,

and all beyond our little clearings were wild cannibal (食人的) natives,

who were ready enough to blow a poisoned dart (毒镖) at us if they saw a chance.

There was digging and farm-work,

so we were busy enough all day,

though in the evening we had a little time to ourselves.

I learned to give out drugs for the surgeon, and picked up a little of his knowledge.

All the time I was looking for a chance of escape;

but it is hundreds of miles from any other land,

and there is little or no wind in those seas:

so it was a terribly difficult job to get away.

“The surgeon liked to gamble and the other young officers would meet in his rooms in the evening and play cards.

The surgery, where I used to make up my drugs,

was next to his sitting-room, with a small window between us.

Often, if I felt lonely, I used to turn out the lamp in the surgery,

and then, standing there, I could hear their talk and watch their play.

There was Major Sholto, Captain Morstan,

and Lieutenant Bromley Brown, who were in command of the native troops,

and there was the surgeon himself,

and two or three prison-officials.

“I noticed that the soldiers used always to lose and the civilians to win.

These prison guards had done little else than play cards ever since they had been at the Andamans,

while the others just played to pass the time.

Night after night the soldiers got up poorer men.

Major Sholto was the hardest hit. He used to pay in notes and gold at first,

but soon he was writing big I.O.Us.

He would win for a few hands,

and then the luck would run against him worse than ever. He took to drinking more than was good for him.

“One night he lost even more heavily than usual.

I was sitting in my hut when he and Captain Morstan came stumbling along on the way to their quarters.

They were close friends, those two, and never far apart.

The major was raving about his losses.

“ ‘I’m finished, Morstan,’ he was saying,

as they passed my hut. ‘I am a ruined man.’

“ ‘Me too’, said the other, slapping him upon the shoulder.

‘If we can’t pay the money back,

we will be thrown out of the army in disgrace (狼狈，耻辱) .’

I saw my chance. I told them the story of the treasure—

with small changes so that they could not find it—

and told them that if the other members of the Sign of Four agreed,

we could give them a share of the treasure that would not only pay off their debts but make them rich men.

I insisted that the others be consulted,

which they did not like but had to agree to.

“The matter ended in a second meeting,

at which Mahomet Singh, Abdullah Khan, and Dost Akbar were all present.

We talked the matter over, and at last we came to an arrangement.

We were to provide both the officers with charts of the part of the Agra fort and mark the place in the wall where the treasure was hid.

Major Sholto was to go to India to test our story.

If he found the box he was to leave it there,

to send out a small yacht with supplies for a voyage and leave it tied up at a nearby island,

and finally to return to his duties.

Captain Morstan was then to apply for leave of absence,

to meet us at Agra, and there we were to have a final division of the treasure,

he taking the major’s share as well as his own.

All this we sealed by the most solemn oaths that the mind could think or the lips utter.

I sat up all night with paper and ink, and by the morning I had the two charts all ready,

signed with the sign of four—that is, of Abdullah, Akbar, Mahomet, and myself.

“Well, I’ll make it as short as I can.

The villain (恶棍) Sholto went off to India, but he never came back again.

Captain Morstan showed me his name among a list of passengers in one of the boats to England very shortly afterwards.

His uncle had died, leaving him a fortune, and he had left the army,

yet he could stoop to treat five men as he had treated us.

Morstan went over to Agra shortly afterwards, and found, as we expected,

that the treasure was indeed gone.

From that day I lived only for vengeance (复仇) .

To escape, to track down Sholto, to have my hand upon his throat—

that was my one thought.

Even the Agra treasure had come to be a smaller thing in my mind than the killing of Sholto.