Chapter 24
===================
It was a long time before I rejoined the inspector.

His face clouded over when I showed him the empty box.

The inspector shook his head.

“It’s a bad job,” he repeated,

“and so Mr. Athelney Jones will think.”

His forecast proved to be correct,

for the detective looked blank enough when I got to Baker Street and showed him the empty box.

My companion lounged in his armchair with his usual listless (倦怠的) expression,

while Small sat calmly opposite him.

As I showed him the empty box, he leaned back in his chair and laughed aloud.

“This is your doing, Small,” said Athelney Jones, angrily.

“It is my treasure, and I tell you that no living man has any right to it,

unless it is three men who are prisoners in the Andamans and myself.

I cannot have the use of it,

and I know that they cannot.

I have always acted for them as much as for myself.

It’s been the sign of four with us always.

I know that they would have had me do just what I have done,

rather than let it go to the family of Sholto or of Morstan.

It was not to make them rich that we killed Achmet.

You’ll find the treasure where the key is, and where little Tonga is.

When I saw that your launch must catch us, I put the loot (宝物) away in a safe place.

There are no rupees for you this journey.”

“You are deceiving us, Small,” said Athelney Jones, sternly.

“If you had wished to throw the treasure into the Thames it would have been easier for you to have thrown the whole box.”

“Easier for me to throw, and easier for you to recover,” he answered.

“The man that was clever enough to hunt me down is clever enough to pick an iron box from the bottom of a river.

Now that they are scattered over five miles or so, it may be a harder job.”

“This is a very serious matter, Small,” said the detective.

“If you had helped justice, instead of thwarting it in this way,

you would have had a better chance at your trial.”

“Justice!” snarled the ex-convict.

“What justice! Whose loot (财宝) is this, if it is not ours?

Where is the justice that I should give it up to those who have never earned it?

Look how I have earned it!

Twenty long years in that fever-ridden swamp,

all day at work, all night chained up in the filthy (肮脏的) prison-huts,

bitten by mosquitoes, bullied by the guards.

That was how I earned the Agra treasure, and you talk to me of justice!

I would rather be hanged than live in a prison cell and feel that another man has the money that should be mine!”

I could understand, as I saw the fury and the passion of the man,

that it was no unreasonable terror which had possessed Major Sholto when he first learned that the injured convict was upon his track.

“You forget that we know nothing of all this,”said Holmes quietly.

“We have not heard your story.”

“Well, sir, if you want to hear my story I have no wish to hold it back.

What I say to you is God’s truth, every word of it.

“I am a Worcestershire man.

My close relatives were all steady, church-going folk, small farmers,

well known and respected over the countryside,

while I was always a bit of a black sheep.

When I was about eighteen, I got into a mess over a girl,

and could only get out of it again by joining the Army, which sent me over to India.

“I was fool enough to go swimming in the Ganges.

A crocodile (鳄鱼) took off my right leg as clean as a surgeon could have done it,

just above the knee. I was five months in hospital over it,

and when at last I was able to limp out of it with this wooden leg strapped to my stump,

the Indian Army rebelled against the British.

“One month India was as quiet and peaceful,to all appearance, as anywhere in England.

The next there were two hundred thousand black devils (黑鬼) let loose,

and the country was a perfect hell.

I just managed to escape, and found myself late at night ‘safe’ within the walls at Agra.

“But we were not really safe there, either;

we held just the ground that our guns commanded.

It was a fight of millions against hundreds,

and the cruellest part was that these men we fought against were our own troops whom we had taught and trained,

fighting with weapons that we had given them.

Nothing but the worst news came to us from every side—

in every direction there was nothing but torture and murder and atrocity (暴行) .

“We took up our position in the old fort at Agra.

I don’t know if any of you gentlemen have ever read or heard anything of that old fort.

It is the queerest place I ever was in, and I have been in some strange places.

First of all, it is enormous.

There is a modern part, which accommodated our soldiers, women, children, stores, and everything else.

But the modern part is nothing like the size of the old part,

where nobody goes, and which is abandoned to the scorpions and the centipedes.

It is all full of great deserted halls, and winding passages,

and long corridors twisting in and out,

so that it is easy enough for folk to get lost in it.

So people seldom went there,

though now and again a party with torches might go exploring.