Chapter 4
================
“You!”

“Yes, I have a natural talent both for observation and for deduction (推理) .

The theories which I have expressed there, and which appear to you to be so absurd, are extremely practical — so practical that I depend upon them for my bread and cheese.”

“And how?” I asked.

“Well, I have a trade of my own. 

I suppose I am the only one in the world.

I’m a consulting detective, if you can understand what that is.

Here in London we have lots of Government detectives and lots of private ones.

When these men are at fault they come to me, and I manage to put them on the right scent.

They lay all the evidence before me, and I am generally able to give them the right idea, with the help of my knowledge of the history of crime.

Lestrade is a well-known detective.

He got himself into a mess recently over a case.

That’s what brought him here.”

“But do you mean to say,” I said,

“that without leaving your room you can undo some knots which other men cannot figure out, although they have seen every detail for themselves?”

“Quite so.

I have a kind of instinct about those things.

Sometimes a case turns up which is a little more complex.

Then I have to move about and see things with my own eyes.

You see I have a lot of special knowledge which I apply to the problem, and which aids matters wonderfully.

Those rules of deduction (推理) laid down in that article, which stirred your contempt, are precious to me in practical work.

To me, observation is second nature.

On our first meeting, you appeared to be surprised when I told you that you had come from Afghanistan.”

“You were told, no doubt.”

“Nothing of the sort.

I knew you came from Afghanistan.

From long habit the sequence of thoughts ran so swiftly through my mind that I arrived at the conclusion without being aware of the intermediate steps.

There were such steps, however.

My thoughts went like this, ‘Here is a gentleman of a medical type, but with the air of a military man.

Clearly an army doctor, then.

He has just come from the tropics, for his face is dark, and that is not the natural color of his skin, for his wrists are fair.

He has experienced suffering and sickness, as his worn face says clearly. His left arm has been wounded.

He holds it in a stiff and unnatural manner.

Where in the tropics could an English army doctor have seen much suffering and got his arm wounded?

Clearly in Afghanistan.’ The whole train of thought did not take a second.

I then remarked that you came from Afghanistan, and you were shocked.”

“It is simple enough when you explain it,” I said, smiling.

“No man lives, or has ever lived, who has brought the same amount of study and of natural talent to the detection of crime as I have done.

And what is the result?

There is no crime to detect, or, at most, some stupid crimes with a motive so obvious that even a Scotland Yard official can see through it.”

I was annoyed at his arrogant style of conversation.

I thought it best to change the topic.

“I wonder what that fellow is looking for.”I asked, pointing to a plainly-dressed man who was walking slowly down the other side of the street, looking anxiously at the numbers.

He had a large blue envelope in his hand, and was evidently carrying a message to someone.

“You mean the retired sergeant of Marines,” said Sherlock Holmes.

“Nonsense!” I thought to myself.

“He knows that I cannot verify his guess.”

The thought had hardly passed through my mind when the man whom we were watching caught sight of the number on our door, and ran rapidly across the road.

We heard a loud knock, a deep voice below, and heavy steps climbing the stair.

“For Mr. Sherlock Holmes,” he said, stepping into the room and handing my friend the letter.

Here was an opportunity of taking the pride out of him.

He little thought of this when he made that random guess.

“May I ask, my man,” I said, “what your job may be?”

“Messenger, sir,” he said. “My uniform is away to be mended.”

“And you were?” I asked.

“A sergeant, sir, Royal Marine Light Infantry, sir. No answer? Right, sir.”

He clicked his heels together, raised his hand in a salute, and was gone.

I confess that I was considerably shocked by this fresh proof of my companion’s theories.

My respect for his powers of analysis increased greatly.

However, there still remained some suspicion in my mind that the whole thing was pre-arranged, intended to dazzle me.

When I looked at him, he had finished reading the note.

“How in the world did you figure that out?” I asked.

“Figure what out?” said he.

“That he was a retired sergeant of Marines.”

“I have no time for such simple games,” he answered.

Then with a smile he said, “Excuse my rudeness. You broke the line of thought, but perhaps it is as well.

So you actually were not able to see that that man was a sergeant of Marines?”

“No, indeed.”

“It was easier to know it than to explain why I knew it.

If you were asked to prove that two and two made four, you might find some difficulty, and yet you are quite sure of the fact.

Even across the street I could see a great blue anchor tattooed on the back of the fellow’s hand.

That smelled of the sea.

He had a military carriage, however, and a regulation military haircut.

There we have the marine. He was a man with some amount of self-importance and a certain air of command.

You must have observed the way in which he held his head.

His face also showed that he was a steady, respectable, middle-aged man—all facts which led me to believe that he had been a sergeant.”

“Wonderful!” I said.

“No—very ordinary,” said Holmes, though I thought from his expression that he was pleased at my evident surprise and admiration.

“I said just now that there were no criminals.

It appears that I am wrong—look at this!” He threw me over the note which the gentleman had brought.

“Oh,” I cried, as I cast my eye over it, “this is terrible!”