Chapter 29
=================
“Well, I have set my mind on many things in this life,

and I have done every one of them. But it was weary years before my time came.

I have told you that I had picked up something of medicine.

One day when Dr. Somerton was down with a fever,

a little Andaman Islander was picked up by some prisoners in the woods.

He was sick to death, and had gone to a lonely place to die.

I took him in, and after a couple of months I got him cured and able to walk.

He took a liking to me then, and would hardly go back to his woods,

but was always hanging about my hut.

I learned a little of his language from him,

and this made him all the fonder of me.

“Tonga—for that was his name—was a fine boatman,

and owned a big, roomy canoe (独木舟) of his own.

When I found that he was devoted to me and would do anything to serve me,

I saw my chance of escape.

I talked it over with him.

He was to bring his boat round on a certain night to an old wharf which was never guarded,

and there he was to pick me up.

I gave him directions to have several gourds of water and a lot of yams, coconuts, and sweet potatoes.

“He was loyal and true, was little Tonga.

No man ever had a more faithful mate.

At the night named he had his boat at the wharf.

Tonga had brought all his possessions with him,

his arms and his gods. Among other things,

he had a long bamboo spear, and some Andaman mats made out of palm leaves,

with which I made a sort of sail.

For ten days we were sailing about, trusting to luck,

and on the eleventh we were picked up by a trading boat which was going from Singapore on a pilgrimage (朝圣) to Mecca.

They were a strange crowd,

but Tonga and I soon managed to settle down among them.

They had one very good quality: they let you alone and asked no questions.

“Well, if I were to tell you all the adventures that my little friend and I went through,

you would not thank me,

for I would have you here until the sun was shining.

Here and there we drifted about the world,

something always turning up to keep us from London.

All the time, however, I never lost sight of my purpose.

I would dream of Sholto at night.

A hundred times I have killed him in my sleep.

At last, however, some three or four years ago,

we found ourselves in England.

I had no great difficulty in finding where Sholto lived,

and I set to work to discover whether he had sold the treasure,

or if he still had it. I made friends with someone who could help me—

I name no names, for I don’t want to get anyone else in trouble—

and I soon found that he still had the jewels.

Then I tried to get at him in many ways; but he was pretty sly (狡猾的) ,

and had always two prize-fighters, besides his sons and his Indian servant,

on guard over him.

“One day, however, I got word that he was dying.

I hurried at once to the garden, mad that he should slip out of my clutches like that,

and, looking through the window,

I saw him lying in his bed, with his sons on each side of him.

I’d have come through and taken my chance with the three of them,

only even as I looked at him his jaw dropped,

and I knew that he was gone.

I got into his room that same night, though,

and I searched his papers to see if there was any record of where he had hidden our jewels.

There was not a line, however, so I came away, bitter and savage as a man could be.

Before I left I had the thought that if I ever met my Sikh friends again

it would be a satisfaction to know that I had left some mark of our hatred:

so I scrawled down the sign of the four of us, as it had been on the chart,

and I pinned it on his chest.

It was too much that he should be taken to the grave without some token from the men whom he had robbed and cheated.

“We earned a living at this time by my exhibiting poor Tonga at fairs and other such places as the black cannibal (生番野人) .

He would eat raw meat and dance his war-dance,

so we always had a hatful (满满一帽子的) of pennies after a day’s work.

I still heard all the news from Pondicherry Lodge,

and for some years there was no news to hear, except that they were hunting for the treasure.

At last, however, came what we had waited for so long.

The treasure had been found.

It was up at the top of the house, in Mr. Bartholomew Sholto’s chemical laboratory.
