Chapter 22
=============
We were after her now.

With every vibration (振动) of the engines we sprang and quivered like a living thing.

We flashed past barges (驳船) and merchant-ships,

in and out, behind this one and round the other.

Voices called us out of the darkness,

but still the Aurora rushed on,

and still we followed close upon her track.

The twilight was setting into a clear starlit (星光闪耀的) night.

Our boilers were strained to their utmost,

and the frail (脆弱的) shell shook and creaked with the fierce energy which was driving us along.

Jones turned our searchlight (探照灯) upon the Aurora,

so that we could plainly see the figures upon her deck.

Steadily we caught up with them, yard by yard.

We were not more than four boat’s lengths behind them when the man in the stern sprang up from the deck and shook his fists at us,

cursing in a high, cracked voice.

I could see that from the thigh downwards there was but a wooden stump upon the right side.

Suddenly a little black man appeared—the smallest I have ever seen—

with a great, misshapen (畸形的，怪异的) head and tangled hair,

and a face that was enough to give a man a sleepless night.

His small eyes glowed and burned with a cruel light,

and his teeth grinned at us with a half animal fury.

Holmes and I took out our guns at the sight of this savage,distorted creature.

“Fire if he raises his hand,” said Holmes, quietly.

We were within a boat’s length by this time,

and could almost reach out and touch them.


It was lucky that we had so clear a view of him.

Even as we looked he took out a short, round piece of wood, like a school-ruler,

and put it to his lips.

Our guns rang out together.

He whirled round and fell sideways into the white swirl (漩涡) of the waters.

At the same moment the wooden-legged man turned the boat into the southern bank.

It was a wild and desolate place,

where the moon glimmered upon a wide expanse (延伸部分) of marshland (沼泽地) ,

with pools of stagnant (污浊的) water and beds of decaying vegetation.

The fugitive (逃亡者) sprang out,

but his stump instantly sank its whole length into the muddy soil.

When we brought our launch alongside he was so firmly stuck

that it was only by throwing the end of a rope over his shoulders that we were able to haul him out,

and to drag him, like some evil fish, over our side.

The two Smiths, father and son, sat unhappily in their launch, but came aboard meekly (老实地) enough when commanded.

The Aurora herself we hauled off and made fast to our stern.

A solid iron chest of Indian workmanship (工艺) stood upon the deck.

There was no key, and it was of considerable weight,

so we transferred it carefully to our own little cabin.

“See here,” said Holmes, pointing to the wooden door of our boat’s cabin.

“We were hardly quick enough with our guns.”

There, just behind where we had been standing,

stuck one of those murderous darts (毒镖) which we knew so well.

It must have whizzed between us at the instant that we fired.

It made me sick to think of the horrible death which had passed so close to us that night.

On our return we flashed our searchlight (探照灯) in every direction,

but there was no sign of the Islander.

Somewhere in the dark mud at the bottom of the Thames lie the bones of that strange visitor to our shores.

Our prisoner sat in the cabin opposite the iron box which he had done so much and waited so long to gain.

The lines and wrinkles all over his sunburned (晒伤的) face told of a hard, open-air life.

“Well, Jonathan Small,” said Holmes,

lighting a cigar, “I am sorry that it has come to this.”

“And so am I, sir,” he answered, frankly.

“I give you my word I did not kill Mr. Sholto.

It was Tonga who shot one of his cursed darts (毒镖) into him.

I punished Tonga for it, but it was done, and I could not undo it.”

“Have some whisky (威士忌) ,” said Holmes,

“so you don’t catch cold. How could you expect this black fellow to overpower (制服) Mr. Sholto?”

“You seem to know as much about it as if you were there, sir.

The truth is that I hoped to find the room empty.

It was the time when Mr. Sholto usually went down to his supper.

I shall make no secret of the business.

The best defence that I can make is just the simple truth.

Now, if it had been the old major I would have been happy to kill him.

But it’s unfair that I should be punished over this young Sholto, with whom I had no quarrel.”

“Mr. Athelney Jones, of Scotland Yard, will bring you up to my rooms,

and I shall ask you for a true account of the matter.

If you tell the truth, I may be of use to you.

I think I can prove that the poison acts so quickly that the man was dead before ever you reached the room.”

“He was, sir. It fairly shook me, sir, to see him dead like that.

How you found me is more than I can tell.

I don’t have any hard feelings towards you.

But it does seem a queer thing,” he added, with a bitter smile,

“that I who have a good claim to half a million pounds should spend the first half of my life breaking stones in the Andamans,

and am likely to spend the other half digging ditches at Dartmoor.

It was an evil day for me when I ever saw the merchant Achmet and had to do with the Agra treasure.

To Achmet it brought murder, to Major Sholto it brought fear and guilt,

to me it has meant slavery for life.”