Chapter 8
==================
It was in the summer of 1889, not long after my marriage.

I had returned to medical practice and moved out of Holmes’ Baker Street rooms, although I often visited him and he sometimes visited us.

My medical practice had steadily increased, and as I happened to live close to Paddington Railway Station, I had a few patients from among the railway workers.

One of these, whom I had cured of a painful disease, frequently recommended patients to me.

One morning, at a little before seven o’clock,

I was awakened by the maid knocking on the door to announce that two men had come from Paddington and were waiting in the consulting-room.

I dressed hurriedly, for I knew by experience that railway cases were usually serious, and hurried down the stairs.

As I descended, my former patient came out of the room and closed the door tightly behind him.

“It’s a new patient,” he whispered.

“I must go now, Doctor; I have my duties, just the same as you.”

And off he went, without even giving me time to thank him.

I entered my medical office and found a gentleman seated by the table.

Round one of his hands was wrapped a bloodstained handkerchief.

He was young, but he was exceedingly pale,

and gave me the impression of a man who was suffering from some strong agitation (烦乱) , which it took all his strength of mind to control.

“I am sorry to call on you so early, Doctor,” said he, “but I have had a very serious accident during the night.

I came in by train this morning, and on asking at Paddington where I might find a doctor, a kind railway worker brought me here.

I gave the maid a card, but I see that she has left it upon the side-table.”


I took it up and glanced at it.

“Mr. Victor Hatherley, hydraulic (水力的) engineer.”

“I am sorry I have kept you waiting,” said I, sitting down in my office chair.

“You are fresh from a night journey, I understand, which I know can be boring.”

“Oh, my night was not boring!” he said, and suddenly burst into very loud, high, and unnatural laughter.

“Stop it!” I cried, “Calm yourself!” and I poured him some water.

It was useless, however.

It was one of those sudden reactions which come upon a strong nature when some great crisis is over.

Presently he came to himself once more, very tired and pale-looking.

“I have been making a fool of myself,” he gasped.

“Not at all. Drink this.”

I poured some brandy into the water, and the colour began to come back to his face.

“That’s better!” said he.

“And now, Doctor, perhaps you can take care of my thumb, or rather the place where my thumb used to be.”

He removed the handkerchief and held out his hand. I shuddered to look at it.

There were four fingers, but where the thumb should have been there was only horrible bleeding flesh.

“This is a terrible injury!” I cried, “It must have bled considerably.”

“Yes, it did.

I fainted when it was done, and I think that I must have been unconscious for a long time.

When I came to I found that it was still bleeding,

so l tied one end of my handkerchief very tightly round the wrist and tightened it with a piece of wood.”

“Excellent! You should have been a doctor.”

“It is a question of hydraulics (水力学) , which is something I know about.”

“This has been done,” said I, examining the wound, “by a very heavy, sharp weapon.”

“A thing like an axe,” said he.

“An accident, I presume (推测) ?”

“No—a murderous attack.”

“You horrify (使恐惧) me.”

I cleaned the wound and covered it over with cotton wadding (填塞物) and bandages soaked in disinfectant (消毒剂) .

He lay back without wincing, though he bit his lip from time to time.

“How is that?” I asked when I had finished.

“Better! Between your brandy and your bandage, I feel a new man.

I was very weak, and I have suffered a lot.”

“Perhaps you had better not speak of it. It is evidently trying to your nerves.”

“I shall have to talk to the police; but if it were not for the convincing evidence of this wound of mine,

I should be surprised if they believed my statement, for it is a very extraordinary one, and I have very little proof.

Even if they believe me, the clues which I can give them are so vague that I doubt whether justice will be done.”

“In a case like this, I would strongly recommend you to go to my friend, Mr. Sherlock Holmes, before you go to the official police.”

“I have heard of him,” answered my visitor,

“and I would be very glad if he would take the matter up, though of course I must tell the official police as well.

Would you give me an introduction to him?”

“I’ll do better. I’ll take you to him myself.”

“I should be immensely obliged to you.”

“We’ll call a cab and go together.

We shall just be in time to have a little breakfast with him. Do you feel equal to it?”

“Yes; I shall not feel easy until I have told my story.”

I rushed upstairs, explained the matter quickly to my wife, and in five minutes was inside a cab, driving with my new acquaintance to Baker Street.

Sherlock Holmes was, as I expected, lounging about his sitting-room in his dressing-gown, reading the personal column of The Times.

He received us in his quietly friendly fashion, ordered bacon and eggs, and joined us in a large meal.

When it was finished, he settled our new acquaintance upon the sofa, placed a pillow beneath his head, and laid a glass of brandy and water within his reach.

“It is easy to see that your experience has been no ordinary one, Mr. Hatherley,” said he.

“Please lie down there and make yourself at home.

Tell us what you can, and if you are tired, please stop and drink a little.”

“Thank you,” said my patient.

“but I feel much better since the doctor bandaged me.

I want to take up as little of your valuable time as possible, so l shall start at once upon my peculiar experiences.”

Holmes sat in his big armchair while I sat opposite to him, and we listened in silence to the strange story which our visitor detailed to us.