Chapter 3
================
“The facts are briefly these: Some five years ago, during a lengthy visit to Warsaw, I met the well-known adventuress (女冒险家) , Irene Adler.

You may have heard of her.”

“Please look her up in my index, Doctor,” murmured Holmes without opening his eyes.

For many years he had adopted a system of filing away useful information.

“Let me see!” said Holmes.

“Hum! Born in New Jersey, 1858. Opera singer, La Scala, Imperial Opera of Warsaw.

Now retired from opera, living in London.

I deduce that your Majesty had a romance with this young person, and wrote her some love letters that you would now like to get back.

But if she used the letters for blackmail (敲诈) , how would she prove they were real?”

“There is a photograph, with both of us in it.”

“Your Majesty has indeed been very indiscreet.”

“I was only Crown Prince then. I was young. I am only thirty even now.”

“Your Majesty must pay. It must be bought.”

“She will not sell.”

“Stolen, then.”

“Five attempts have been made, without result.”

“No sign of it?”

“Absolutely none.”

Holmes laughed. “It is quite a pretty little problem,” said he.

“But a very serious one to me,” replied the King.

“Indeed. And what does she plan to do with the photograph?”

“To ruin me.”

“But how?”

“I am about to be married.”

“So I have heard.”

“To Clotilde Lothman von (用在姓前，表示贵族身份) Saxe-Meningen, second daughter of the King of Scandinavia.

You may know the strict principles of her family. She is herself the very soul of delicacy.

A shadow of a doubt as to my conduct would bring the matter to an end.”

“And Irene Adler?”

“Threatens to send them the photograph.

And I know that she will do it.

You do not know her, but she has a soul of steel.

She has the face of the most beautiful of women, and the mind of the most resolute of men.

Rather than I should marry another woman, there are no lengths to which she would not go—none.”

“You are sure that she has not sent it yet?”

“I am sure.”

“Why?”

“Because she has said that she would send it on the day when the engagement was publicly announced.

That will be next Monday.”

“Oh, then we have three days yet,” said Holmes with a yawn.

“That is very fortunate, as I have one or two matters of importance to look into just at present.

Your Majesty will, of course, stay in London for the present?”

“Certainly.

You will find me at the Langham Hotel under the name of the Count Von (用在姓前，表示贵族身份) Kramm.”

“Then I shall write to you to let you know how we progress.”

“Pray do so. I shall be all anxiety.”

“Then, as to money?”

“You have complete freedom.

I tell you that I would give one of the provinces of my kingdom to have that photograph.”

“And for present expenses?”

The King took a heavy leather bag from under his cloak and laid it on the table.


“There are three hundred pounds in gold and seven hundred in notes,” he said.

Holmes wrote a receipt upon a sheet of his note-book and handed it to him.

“And her address?” he asked.

“Is Briony Lodge, Serpentine Avenue, St. John’s Wood.”

Holmes wrote it down. “One other question,” said he.

“Was the photograph a large one?”

“It was.”

“Then, good night, your Majesty, and I trust that we shall soon have some good news for you.

And good night, Watson,” he added, as the wheels of the royal carriage rolled down the street.

“If you can call tomorrow afternoon at three o’clock, I should like to talk this little matter over with you.”

At three o’clock precisely I was at Baker Street, but Holmes had not yet returned.

The landlady (女房东) informed me that he had left the house shortly after eight o’clock in the morning.

I sat down beside the fire to wait for him.

I was already deeply interested in his inquiry, for the nature of the case and the exalted (尊贵的) status of his client gave it a character of its own.

Indeed, apart from the nature of the investigation which my friend had on hand, there was something in his masterly grasp of a situation, and his keen, incisive (透彻的) reasoning,

which made it a pleasure to me to study his system of work, and to follow the quick, subtle methods by which he resolved the most complex mysteries.

So accustomed was I to his invariable success that the very possibility of his failing had ceased to enter into my head.

It was almost four before the door opened, and a drunken-looking groom, with a red, hairy face and dirty clothes, walked into the room.

Accustomed as I was to my friend’s amazing powers in the use of disguises,

I had to look three times before I was certain that it was indeed he.

He vanished into the bedroom, and emerged in five minutes, looking respectable and wearing a suit.

Putting his hands into his pockets, he stretched out his legs in front of the fire and laughed heartily for some minutes.

“Well, really!” he cried, and then he choked and laughed again until he was obliged to lie back, limp and helpless, in the chair.

“What is it?”

“You will never guess what I did this morning!”

“I suppose that you have been watching the habits, and perhaps the house, of Miss Irene Adler.”

“Quite so; but what happened then was rather unusual.

I left the house a little after eight o’clock this morning, dressed a groom out of work. There is a wonderful sympathy among men who work with horses.

Be one of them, and you will know all that there is to know.

I soon found Briony Lodge.

It is a small two-story house, with a garden at the back. There is a good lock on the front door.

A large living-room on the right side, well furnished, with long windows almost to the floor, and those simple English window fasteners which a child could open.

“There was a stable in a lane which runs down by one wall of the garden.

I helped the cab-men rub down their horses,

and received in exchange two pence, a glass of beer, two pipes of tobacco, and as much information as I could desire about Miss Adler,

to say nothing of half a dozen other people in the neighbourhood in whom I was not in the least interested,

but whose biographies I was compelled to listen to.”