Chapter 11
================
Colonel Stark went up to her, whispered something in her ear,

and then, pushing her back into the room from which she had come, he walked towards me again with the lamp in his hand.

“ ‘Please wait in this room for a few minutes,’ said he, throwing open another door.

It was a quiet, plainly furnished room, with a round table in the centre, on which several German books were scattered.

Colonel Stark put down the lamp on the table.

‘I shall not keep you waiting long,’ said he, and vanished into the darkness.

“I glanced at the books upon the table,

and in spite of my ignorance of German I could see that two of them were books on science, the others being volumes of poetry.

Then I walked across to the window, hoping that I might catch some glimpse of the countryside, but a wooden shutter, heavily barred, was folded across it.

It was a very silent house.

There was an old clock ticking loudly somewhere in the passage, but otherwise everything was deadly still.

A vague feeling of uneasiness (不安) began to steal over me.

Who were these Germans, and why were they living in this strange, out-of-the-way place?

And where was the place?

I was ten miles or so from Eyford, that was all I knew, but whether north, south, east, or west I had no idea.

For that matter, Reading, and possibly other large towns, were within that radius, so the place might not be so isolated after all.

Yet it was quite certain, from the absolute stillness, that we were in the country.

I paced up and down the room, humming a tune under my breath to keep up my spirits and feeling that I was thoroughly earning my fifty-pound fee.

“Suddenly, without any preliminary sound in the midst of the utter stillness, the door of my room swung slowly open.

The woman was standing in the doorway, the darkness of the hall behind her, the yellow light from my lamp shining upon her beautiful face.

I could see that she was sick with fear, and the sight sent a chill to my own heart.

She held up one shaking finger to warn me to be silent, and she spoke a few whispered words of broken English at me,

her eyes glancing back, like those of a frightened horse, into the gloom behind her.

“ ‘Please go,’ said she, trying hard, as it seemed to me, to speak calmly, ‘Go now.

Do not stay here. There is no good for you to do.’

“ ‘But, madam,’ said I, ‘I have not yet done what I came for.

I cannot possibly leave until I have seen the machine.’

“ ‘It is not worth your while to wait,’ she went on.

‘You can pass through the door; no one will stop you.’

And then, seeing that I smiled and shook my head, she suddenly stepped towards me and whispered, ‘get away from here before it is too late!’


“But I am rather stubborn by nature.

I thought of my fifty-pound fee, of my long journey, and of the unpleasant night ahead.

Was it all to be for nothing?

Why should I go away without having done my job, and without the payment that I was owed?

This woman might be mentally ill.

With a brave look, therefore, though her manner had shaken me more than I cared to confess, I shook my head and told her I would stay where I was.

She was about to warn me again when a door slammed overhead, and the sound of footsteps was heard upon the stairs.

She listened for an instant, threw up her hands with a despairing gesture, and vanished as suddenly and as noiselessly as she had come.

“In came Colonel Stark and a short, fat man with a white beard, who was introduced to me as Mr. Ferguson.

“ ‘This is my secretary and manager,’ said the colonel.

‘By the way, I thought I left this door shut just now.’

“ ‘I opened the door myself because I felt the room to be a little too warm.’

“He looked at me suspiciously.

‘Perhaps we had better proceed to business, then,’ said he.

‘Mr. Ferguson and I will take you up to see the machine.’

“ ‘I had better put my hat on, I suppose.’

“ ‘Oh, no, it is in the house.’

“ ‘What, you dig fuller’s earth in the house?’

“ ‘No, no.

This is only where we compress it.

But never mind that.

All we wish you to do is to examine the machine and to let us know what is wrong with it.’

“We went upstairs together, the colonel first with the lamp, the fat manager and I behind him.

The house was full of corridors, passages, narrow winding staircases, and little doors, the steps of which were hollowed out by the generations who had crossed them.

There were no carpets and no signs of any furniture above the ground floor, while the plaster was peeling off the walls.

I tried to look as casual as possible, but I had not forgotten the warnings of the lady, even though I did not follow them,

and I kept a keen eye upon my two companions.

Ferguson appeared to be a gloomy and silent man, but I could see from the little that he said that he was at least an Englishman.

“Colonel Stark stopped at last before a low door, which he unlocked.

Within was a small, square room, too small for all of us to enter at one time.

Ferguson remained outside, and the colonel showed me in.