Chapter 5
=============
“It does seem to be a little out of the common,” he remarked, calmly.

“Would you mind reading it to me aloud?”

This is the letter which I read to him—

“My dear Mr. Sherlock Holmes:

“There has been a bad business during the night at 3, Lauriston Gardens, off the Brixton Road.

Our man on the beat saw a light there about two in the morning, and as the house was an empty one, he thought that something was wrong.

He found the door open, and in the front room he discovered the body of a gentleman.

The gentleman was well-dressed, and had cards in his pocket bearing the name of ‘Enoch J. Drebber, Cleveland, Ohio, U.S.A.’

There had been no robbery, nor is there any evidence as to how the man met his death.

There are marks of blood in the room, but there is no wound upon his body.

Indeed, the whole affair is a mystery.

If you can come round to the house any time before twelve, you will find me there.

I have left everything as it is until I hear from you.

If you are unable to come I will give you fuller details, and would be grateful if you would do this favor for me.

“Yours faithfully,

“TOBIAS GREGSON.”

“Get your hat,” Holmes said.

“You wish me to come?”

“Yes, if you have nothing better to do.”

A minute later we were both in a cab, driving for the Brixton Road.

When Holmes insisted upon stopping and finishing our journey upon foot, we were still a hundred yards or so from the house.

Number 3, Lauriston Gardens wore an unlucky and threatening look.

It was one of four houses which stood back some little way from the street, two being occupied and two empty.

The latter looked out with three levels of windows, all blank and dull, except here and there a “For Rent” card was placed on the glass.

The whole place was very muddy from the rain which had fallen through the night.

The garden was surrounded by a three-foot brick wall with wood railings upon the top.

I had imagined that Sherlock Holmes would at once have hurried into the house and rushed into a study of the mystery.

But it appeared that that was not his intention.

He acted very calmly; he walked up and down the pavement,

and gazed vacantly at the ground, the sky, the opposite houses and the line of fence railings.

Having finished his observation, he proceeded slowly down the path keeping his eyes focused upon the ground.

Twice he stopped, and once I saw him smile, and heard him utter a sound of satisfaction.

There were many marks of footsteps upon the wet soil, but since the police had been coming and going over it,

I was unable to see how my companion could hope to learn anything from it.

But I had no doubt that he could see a great deal which was hidden from me, as I had seen his amazing power before.

At the door of the house, we were met by a tall, white-faced, blonde-haired man, with a notebook in his hand.

He rushed forward and shook my companion’s hand.

“It is indeed kind of you to come,” he said, “I have had everything left untouched.”

“Except that!” my friend answered, pointing at the path.

“If a herd of buffaloes had passed through there could not be a greater mess.

No doubt, however, you had drawn your own conclusions, Gregson, before you permitted this.”


“I have had so much to do inside the house,” the detective said.

“My coworker, Mr. Lestrade, is here.

I had depended upon him to look after this.”

Holmes glanced at me and raised his eyebrows (眉毛) .

“With two such men as yourself and Lestrade upon the ground, there will not be much for a third party to find out,” he said.

Gregson rubbed his hands in a self-satisfied way.

“I think we have done all that can be done,” he answered, “it’s an unusual case though, and I knew your taste for such things.”

“You did not come here in a cab?” asked Sherlock Holmes.

“No, sir.”

“Nor Lestrade?”

“No, sir.”

“Then let us go and look at the room.”

With this irrelevant remark, he walked into the house, followed by Gregson.

A short passage led to the kitchen and offices.

There were two doors which led to the left and to the right.

One of these had obviously been closed for many weeks.

The other led to the dining-room, where the crime had happened.

Holmes walked in, and I followed him with that subdued feeling in my heart which the presence of death inspired.

It was a large square room, looking all the larger from the absence of all furniture.

The wallpaper was blotched with damp patches, and here and there great strips had peeled off, showing the yellow plaster beneath.

Opposite the door was a fireplace.

On one corner of the mantelpiece (炉壁台) was a red candle.

The only window was so dirty that the light was dim, and a thick layer of dust coated the whole apartment.

All these details I observed afterwards.

At present my attention was focused upon the single grim still figure which lay stretched upon the boards.

It was a man about forty-three or forty-four years old, middle-sized, wide-shouldered, with curly black hair and a short beard.

A top hat, well brushed, was placed upon the floor beside him.

His hands were closed and his arms spread out, while his legs were crossed as if his death had been a painful one.

On his rigid face there stood an expression of horror and hatred.

I have seen death in many forms, but never has it appeared to me in a more terrifying shape than in that dark apartment.

Lestrade was standing by the doorway, and welcomed my companion and myself.

“This case will make a stir, sir,” he remarked.

“It beats anything I have seen, and I’ve seen a lot in my time.”

“There is no clue?” said Gregson.

“None at all,” said Lestrade.

Sherlock Holmes approached the body, and, kneeling down, examined it carefully.

“You are sure that there is no wound?” he asked, pointing to numerous splashes of blood which lay all round.

“Positive!” cried both detectives.

“Then, of course, this blood belongs to a second individual—probably the murderer, if murder has been committed.”

As he spoke, his fingers were flying here, there, and everywhere, feeling, pressing, examining.

His eyes wore an expression of deep thought.

So quickly was the examination made that one would hardly have guessed the small details with which it was conducted.

Finally, he smelled the dead man’s lips, and then glanced at his leather boots.

“He has not been moved at all?” he asked.

“Only what was needed for the purpose of our examination.”

“You can take him to the morgue (停尸房) now,” he said. “There is nothing more to be learned.”

Gregson had a stretcher and four men at hand.

At his call, they entered the room, and the dead man was lifted and carried out.

As they raised him, a ring fell, making a tinkling sound as it hit the ground, and rolled across the floor.

Lestrade took it up and stared at it with a puzzled expression.

“There’s been a woman here,” he cried.

“It’s a woman’s wedding-ring.”

As he spoke, he held it out upon the palm of his hand.

We all gathered round him and gazed at it.

There could be no doubt that the ring had once been on the finger of a bride.
