Chapter 4
=============
“And what of Irene Adler?” I asked.

“Oh, she has turned all the men’s heads down in that area.

She is the prettiest thing in a dress on this planet.

So say all the cabmen. She lives quietly, sings at concerts, drives out at five every day, and returns at seven for dinner.

She seldom goes out at other times, except when she sings.

She has only one male visitor, but a good deal of him.

He is dark and handsome, and never calls less than once a day, and often twice.

He is a Mr. Godfrey Norton, a lawyer.

See the advantages of a cabman as a confidant (密友) .

They had driven him home a dozen times, and knew all about him.

When I had listened to all they had to tell, I began to think over my plan.

“This Godfrey Norton was evidently an important factor in the matter.

He was a lawyer.

That sounded ominous (不妙的) .

What was the relation between them, and what the object of his repeated visits?

Was she his client, his friend, or his mistress (情妇) ?

If the former, she had probably given the photograph to him to keep it safe.

If the latter, it was less likely.

Whether I should continue my work at Briony Lodge, or turn my attention to the gentleman’s law office, depended on the answer to this question.

I fear that I bore you with these details, but I have to let you see my little difficulties if you are to understand the situation.”

“I am following you closely,” I answered.

“I was still thinking when a cab drove up to Briony Lodge, and a gentleman sprang out.

He was a remarkably handsome man, dark, with a moustache—evidently the man of whom I had heard.

He appeared to be in a great hurry, shouted to the cabman to wait,

and rushed past the maid who opened the door with the look of a man who was thoroughly at home.

“He was in the house about half an hour,

and I could catch glimpses of him in the windows of the sitting-room, pacing up and down, talking excitedly, and waving his arms.

Of her I could see nothing.

Presently he emerged, looking even more flurried (急忙的) than before.

As he stepped up to the cab, he pulled a gold watch from his pocket and looked at it earnestly,

‘Drive like the devil (魔鬼) ,’ he shouted, ‘first to Gross & Hankey’s in Regent Street, and then to the Church of St.Monica in the Edgeware Road.

Half a pound if you do it in twenty minutes!’

“Away they went, and up the lane came a fast little carriage, the driver still only half-dressed.

It hadn’t even stopped before she shot out of the hall door and into it.

I only caught a glimpse of her at the moment, but she was a lovely woman, with a face that a man might die for.

“ ‘The Church of St. Monica,’ she cried, ‘and half a pound if you reach it in twenty minutes.’

“I was just deciding whether I should run after the carriage, or try to jump up and hang on to it, when a cab came through the street.

The driver looked twice at such a shabby fare, but I jumped in before he could object.

‘The Church of St. Monica,’ said I, ‘and half a pound if you reach it in twenty minutes.’

It was twenty-five minutes to twelve, and of course it was clear enough what was going on.

“My driver drove fast, but the others were there before us.

The cab and the carriage with their steaming horses were in front of the door when I arrived.

I paid the man and hurried into the church.

There was no one there except the two whom I had followed and a clergyman (牧师) , who seemed to be arguing with them.

They were all three standing together in front of the altar (圣坛) .

I walked lazily up the side aisle, like any other bored person walking through a church.

Suddenly, to my surprise, the three at the altar (圣坛) turned to me, and Godfrey Norton came running as fast as he could towards me.

“ ‘Thank God,’ he cried. ‘You’ll do. Come! Come!’

“ ‘What then?’ I asked.

“ ‘Come, man, come, only three minutes, or it won’t be legal.’

“I was half-dragged up to the altar (圣坛) ,

and before I knew where I was I found myself repeating words whispered in my ear and vouching for things of which I knew nothing,

and generally assisting in the joining together of Irene Adler, an unmarried woman, and Godfrey Norton, a bachelor.

It was all done in an instant, and there was the gentleman thanking me on the one side and the lady on the other,

while the clergyman (牧师) beamed on me in front.

It was the most ridiculous situation in which I ever found myself in my life, and it was the thought of it that started me laughing just now.

It seems that there had been some problem with the marriage license, that the clergyman (牧师) absolutely refused to marry them without a witness,

and that my lucky appearance saved the bridegroom from having to go out into the streets to find one.

The bride gave me a golden pound coin, and I mean to wear it on my watch-chain in memory of the occasion.”


“This is a very unexpected turn of affairs,” said I, “and what happened then?”

“Well, it looked as if the pair might leave immediately, and so require urgent action on my part.

At the church door, however, they separated, he driving back to his office, and she to her own house.

‘I shall drive out in the park at five as usual,’ she said as she left him.

They drove away in different directions, and I went off to make my own arrangements.”

“Which are?”

“Some cold beef and a glass of beer,” he answered, ringing the bell.

“I have been too busy to think of food, and I am likely to be busier still this evening.

By the way, Doctor, I shall want your cooperation.”

“I shall be delighted.”