Chapter 5
================
“You don’t mind breaking the law?”

“Not in the least.”

“Nor running a chance of arrest?”

“Not in a good cause.”

“Oh, the cause is excellent!”

“Then I am your man.”

“I was sure that I might rely on you.”

“But what is it you wish?”

“When Mrs. Turner has brought in the tray I will make it clear to you.

Now,” he said as he turned hungrily to the simple meal that our landlady (女房东) had provided,

“I must discuss it while I eat, for I have not much time.

It is nearly five now.

In two hours we must be on the scene of action.

Miss Irene, or Mrs. Norton as I should now call her, returns from her drive at seven.

We must be at Briony Lodge to meet her.”

“And what then?”

“You must leave that to me.

I have already arranged it all.

There is only one point on which I must insist.

You must not interfere, come what may.

There will probably be some small unpleasantness.

Do not join in it. It will end in my being carried into the house.

Four or five minutes afterwards the sitting-room window will open.

You are to stand close to that open window.”

“Yes.”

“You are to watch me, for I will be visible to you.”

“Yes.”

“And when I raise my hand

—so—you will throw into the room what I give you to throw, and will, at the same time, raise the cry of fire.

You quite follow me?”

“Entirely.”

“It is nothing very dangerous,” he said, taking a long cigar-shaped roll from his pocket.

“It is an ordinary plumber (管道工) ’s smoke-rocket, fitted with a cap at either end to make it self-lighting.

Your task is just that.

When you raise your cry of fire, it will be taken up by quite a number of people.

You may then walk to the end of the street, and I will rejoin (汇合) you in ten minutes.

I hope that I have made myself clear?”

“I am to remain neutral, to get near the window, to watch you,

and at the signal to throw in this object, then to raise the cry of fire, and to wait you at the corner of the street.”

“Precisely.”

“Then you may entirely rely on me.”

“That is excellent.

I think, perhaps, it is almost time that I prepare for the new role I have to play.”

He disappeared into his bedroom and returned in a few minutes in the character of a friendly clergyman (牧师) with a sympathetic smile and a general look of benevolent curiosity.

It was not merely that Holmes changed his costume.

His expression, his manner, his very soul seemed to vary with every fresh part that he assumed.

The stage lost a fine actor, even as science lost an acute reasoner, when he became a specialist in crime.

It was a quarter past six when we left Baker Street, and it was ten to seven when we found ourselves in Serpentine Avenue.

It was already getting dark, and the lamps were just being lighted as we walked up and down in front of Briony Lodge, waiting for the coming of its occupant.

The house was just as I had pictured it from Sherlock Holmes’s description, but the area appeared to be less private than I expected.

In fact, for a small street in a quiet neighbourhood, it was remarkably lively.

There was a group of badly-dressed men smoking and laughing in a corner, a knife-sharpener with his wheel,

two soldiers who were flirting with a nurse, and several well-dressed young men who were lounging up and down with cigars in their mouths.

“You see,” remarked Holmes, as we paced to and fro (来来往往) in front of the house, “this marriage rather simplifies matters.

The photograph becomes a double-edged weapon now.

The chances are that she would not want Mr. Godfrey Norton to see it, just as our client would not want it to be seen by his princess.

Now the question is, where are we to find the photograph?”

“Where, indeed?”

“It is most unlikely that she carries it about with her.

It is too large to be easily hidden.

She knows that the King is capable of having her robbed and searched.

We may take it, then, that she does not carry it about with her.”

“Where, then?”

“Perhaps her banker or her lawyer—but I think not.

Women like to keep their own secrets.

Why should she hand it over to anyone else?

Besides, if she wants to use it soon, it must be where she can lay her hands upon it.

It must be in her own house.”

“But it has twice been burgled.”

“They did not know how to look.”

“But how will you look?”

“I will not look.”

“What then?”

“I will get her to show me.”

“But she will refuse.”

“She will not be able to, I can explain why—but I can hear her carriage. Now carry out my orders exactly.”

As he spoke, we saw the gleam of the side-lights of a carriage, which drove up to the door of Briony Lodge.

One of the loafing men at the corner dashed forward to open the door in the hope of earning a penny,

but was pushed away by another loafer, who had rushed up with the same intention.

A fierce quarrel broke out, which was joined by the two soldiers, who took sides with one of the loafers, and by the knife-sharpener, who fought on the other side.

In an instant the lady, who had stepped from her carriage, was the centre of a group of struggling men,

who struck savagely at each other with their fists and sticks.

Holmes dashed into the crowd to protect the lady;

but just as he reached her he gave a cry and dropped to the ground, with the blood running freely down his face.

At his fall all the fighters ran away,

while a number of better-dressed people, who had watched the fight without taking part in it, crowded in to help the lady and the injured man.

Irene Adler, as I will still call her, had hurried up the steps;

but she stood at the top with her superb figure outlined against the lights of the hall, looking back into the street.