Chapter 6
================
“Is the poor gentleman badly hurt?” she asked.

“He is dead,” cried several voices.

“No, no, there’s life in him!” shouted another.

“But he’ll be gone before you can get him to hospital.”

“He’s a brave fellow,” said a woman.

“They would have had the lady’s purse and watch if it hadn’t been for him.

They were a gang, and a rough one, too. Ah, he’s breathing now.”

“He can’t lie in the street. May we bring him in, madam?”

“Of course.

Bring him into the sitting room.

There is a comfortable sofa. This way, please!”

Slowly and solemnly he was borne into Briony Lodge and laid out in the sitting room, while I watched from my position by the window.

The curtains had not been drawn, so I could see Holmes as he lay upon the couch.

I never felt more ashamed of myself in my life than when I saw the beautiful woman against whom I was conspiring,

or the grace and kindness with which she waited upon the injured man.

And yet it would be the blackest treachery (背叛) to Holmes to draw back now from the part which he had entrusted to me.

I hardened my heart, and took the smoke-rocket out from under my coat.

After all, I thought, we are not injuring her.

We are only preventing her from injuring another.


Holmes had sat up upon the couch, and I saw him motion like a man who is in need of air.

A maid rushed across and threw open the window.

At the same instant I saw him raise his hand and at the signal I tossed my rocket into the room with a cry of “Fire!”

The word was no sooner out of my mouth than the whole crowd of spectators joined in a shout of “Fire!”

Thick clouds of smoke curled through the room and out of the open window.

I caught a glimpse of rushing figures, and a moment later the voice of Holmes from within assuring them that it was a false alarm.

Slipping through the shouting crowd I made my way to the corner of the street,

and in ten minutes was happy to find my friend’s arm in mine, and to get away from the scene of uproar.

He walked swiftly and in silence for some few minutes until we had turned down one of the quiet streets which lead towards the Edgeware Road.

“You did it very nicely, Doctor,” he remarked.

“Nothing could have been better. It is all right.”

“You have the photograph?”

“I know where it is.”

“And how did you find out?”

“She showed me, as I told you she would.”

“I am still in the dark.”

“I do not wish to make a mystery,” said he, laughing.

“The matter was perfectly simple.

You, of course, saw that everyone in the street was an accomplice (同谋者) .

They were all hired for the evening.”

“I guessed as much.”

“Then, when the fight started, I had a little red paint in the palm of my hand.

I rushed forward, fell down, clapped my hand to my face, and became a piteous (可怜的) sight. It is an old trick.”

“That I also guessed.”

“Then they carried me in.

She had to have me in.

What else could she do?

And into her sitting room, which was the very room which I suspected.

It was either that or her bedroom, and I was determined to see which.

They laid me on a couch, I motioned for air, they were compelled to open the window, and you had your chance.”

“How did that help you?”

“It was all-important.

When a woman thinks that her house is on fire, her instinct is at once to rush to the thing which she values most.

I have more than once taken advantage of that instinct.

A married woman grabs at her baby; an unmarried one reaches for her jewel-box.

Now it was clear to me that our lady of today had nothing in the house more precious to her than what we are looking for.

She would rush to secure it.

The alarm of fire was admirably done, and she responded beautifully.

The photograph is in a recess (凹处) behind a sliding panel just above the right bell-pull.

She was there in an instant, and I caught a glimpse of it as she half-drew it out.

When I cried out that it was a false alarm, she replaced it, glanced at the rocket, rushed from the room, and I have not seen her since.

I rose, and, making my excuses, escaped from the house.

I hesitated whether to attempt to take the photograph at once; but a servant had come in, and as he was watching me closely it seemed safer to wait.

Too much haste could ruin everything.”

“And now?” I asked.

“Our quest is almost finished.

I shall call with the King tomorrow, and with you, if you care to come with us.

We will be shown into the sitting-room to wait for the lady; but it is probable that when she comes she may find neither us nor the photograph.

It might be a satisfaction to his Majesty to regain it with his own hands.”

“And when will you call?”

“At eight in the morning.

She will not be up, so that we shall have a clear field.

Besides, we must be prompt, for this marriage may mean a complete change in her life and habits.

I must send a telegram to the King without delay.”

We had reached Baker Street and had stopped at the door.

He was searching his pockets for the key when someone passing said:

“Good night, Mister Sherlock Holmes.”

There were several people on the pavement at the time, but the greeting appeared to come from a slim youth in a raincoat who had hurried by.

“I’ve heard that voice before,” said Holmes, staring down the dimly lit street.

“Now, I wonder who on earth that could have been.”