Chapter 2
==================
I carefully examined the writing and the paper.

“The man who wrote it has money,” I remarked, trying to imitate my companion’s thought processes.

“Such paper could not be bought under half a crown a packet.

It is peculiarly strong and stiff.”

“Peculiar—that is the very word,” said Holmes.

“It is not an English paper at all. Hold it up to the light.”

I did so, and saw a large “E” with a small “g,”

a “P,” and a large “G” with a small “t” woven into the texture (结构) of the paper.

“What do you make of that?” asked Holmes.

“The name of the maker, no doubt; or his mark, rather.”

“Actually, the ‘G’ with the small ‘t’ stands for ‘Gesellschaft,’ which is the German for ‘Company.’

‘P,’ of course, stands for ‘Papier.’ Now for the ‘Eg.’

Let us glance at our European atlas.”

He took down a heavy brown book from his shelves.

“Here we are, Egria. It is a German-speaking area in Bohemia, not far from Carlsbad.

‘Known for its many glass and paper factories.’

What do you make of that?” His eyes sparkled, and he sent up a great blue triumphant cloud from his cigarette.

“The paper was made in Bohemia,” I said.

“Precisely.

And the man who wrote the note is a German. Notice the peculiar language of the sentence—‘This account of you we have from all quarters received.’

Only Germans end their sentences with verbs in that way.

It only remains, therefore, to discover what is wanted by this German who writes upon Bohemian paper and prefers wearing a mask to showing his face.

And here he comes.”

As he spoke we heard horses’ hoofs and grating (摩擦声) wheels against the curb, followed by a sharp pull at the bell.

Holmes whistled.

“Two horses, by the sound,” said he.

“Yes,” he continued, glancing out of the window.

“A fancy private carriage and a pair of beautiful horses to pull it. A hundred and fifty pounds a horse.

There’s money in this case, Watson, if there is nothing else.”

“I think that I had better go, Holmes.”

“Not at all, Doctor.

Stay where you are—I am lost without my assistant.

And this promises to be interesting.”

“But your client—”

“Never mind him.

I may want your help, and so may he.

Here he comes.

Sit down in that armchair, Doctor, and give us your best attention.”

A slow and heavy step, which had been heard upon the stairs and in the passage, paused immediately outside the door.

Then there was a loud and commanding knock.

“Come in!” said Holmes.

A man entered who could hardly have been less than six feet six inches tall, with the chest and limbs of a giant.

His dress was so rich as to be looked upon in England as in bad taste.

The deep blue cloak which was thrown over his shoulders was lined with flame-coloured silk and fastened at the neck with a brooch (胸针) containing a precious jewel.

His boots were trimmed at the tops with rich brown fur.

He carried a broad-brimmed hat in his hand, while he wore a black wizard (男巫) mask across the upper part of his face.

From the lower part of the face he appeared to be a man of strong character, with a long, straight chin suggestive of resolution pushed to the length of obstinacy (固执) .

“You had my note?”

he asked with a strong German accent.

“I told you that I would call.”

He looked from one to the other of us, as if uncertain which to address.

“Please take a seat,” said Holmes.

“This is my friend and colleague, Dr. Watson, who is occasionally good enough to help me in my cases.

Whom have I the honour to address?”

“You may address me as the Count Von (用在姓前，表示贵族身份) Kramm, a Bohemian nobleman (贵族) .

I understand that this gentleman, your friend, is a man of honour and discretion, whom I may trust with a matter of the most extreme importance.

If not, I should much prefer to communicate with you alone.”

I rose to go, but Holmes caught me by the wrist and pushed me back into my chair.

“It is both, or none,” said he.

“You may say before this gentleman anything which you may say to me.”


The Count shrugged his broad shoulders.

“Then I must begin,” said he, “by asking you to promise absolute secrecy for two years.

At present it is not too much to say that the issue is of such weight that it may have an influence upon European history.”

“I promise,” said Holmes.

“And I.”

“You will excuse this mask,” continued our strange visitor.

“The noble person who employs me wishes his agent to be unknown to you.

Every precaution has to be taken to prevent what might grow to be an immense scandal and seriously compromise one of the reigning families of Europe.

The matter involves the great House of Ormstein, the kings of Bohemia.”

“I was also aware of that,” murmured Holmes, settling himself down in his armchair and closing his eyes.

Our visitor glanced with some apparent surprise at the languid (倦怠的) ,

lounging figure of the man who had been no doubt described to him as the most brilliant reasoner and most energetic agent in Europe.

Holmes slowly reopened his eyes and looked impatiently at his gigantic client.

“If your Majesty would please state your case,” he remarked, “I should be better able to advise you.”

The man sprang from his chair and paced up and down the room in uncontrollable agitation (激动) .

Then, with a gesture of desperation, he tore the mask from his face and hurled it upon the ground.

“You are right,” he cried, “I am the King. Why should I attempt to hide it?”

“Why, indeed?” murmured Holmes.

“Your Majesty had not spoken before I was aware that I was addressing Wilhelm Gottsreich Sigismond von (用在姓前，表示贵族身份) Ormstein, Grand Duke of Cassel Felstein, and hereditary (世袭的) King of Bohemia.”

“But you can understand,” said our strange visitor, “that I am not accustomed to doing such business myself.

Yet the matter was so delicate that I could not confide (委托) it to an agent without putting myself in his power.

I have come incognito (隐姓埋名地) from Prague for the purpose of consulting you.”

“Then, please consult,” said Holmes, shutting his eyes once more.