Chapter 9
=================
“You must know,” said he, “that I have no family and live alone in London.

I am a hydraulic (水力的) engineer, and I have had considerable experience of my work during the seven years I was an apprentice (学徒) .

Two years ago, having finished my apprenticeship (学徒生涯) , and having also inherited some money after my father’s death,

I decided to start my own business and rented an office in Victoria Street.

“I suppose that everyone finds his first independent start in business a dreary (枯燥的) experience.

To me it has been exceptionally so.

During two years I have had three consultations and one small job, and that is absolutely all that my profession has brought me.

My total takings amount to 27 pounds ten shillings.

Every day, from nine in the morning until four in the afternoon, I waited in my little office, until at last my heart began to sink,

and I came to believe that I should never have any practice at all.

“Yesterday, however, just as I was thinking of leaving the office, a man came to see me on business.

He brought up a card, too, with the name of ‘Colonel Lysander Stark’ engraved upon it.

He was quite tall, but extremely thin—I do not think I have ever seen so thin a man.

His whole face sharpened away into nose and chin, and the skin of his cheeks was drawn quite tense over his outstanding bones.

Yet this thinness seemed to be his natural habit, and not due to any disease, for his eye was bright, his step brisk, and his posture confident.

He was plainly but neatly dressed, and his age, I should judge, would be nearer forty than thirty.

“ ‘Mr. Hatherley?’ said he, with a slight German accent.

‘You have been recommended to me,

Mr. Hatherley, as being a man who is not only skilled in his profession but is also discreet and capable of preserving a secret.’

“I bowed, feeling as flattered (被奉承的) as any young man would at such an address.

‘May I ask who it was who has spoken so well of me?’

“ ‘Well, perhaps it is better that I should not tell you that just at this moment.

I have it from the same source that you have no family, and live alone in London.’

“ ‘That is quite correct,’ I answered, ‘but I cannot see what this has to do with my professional qualifications.

I understand that it was on a professional matter that you wished to speak to me?’

“ ‘Indeed.

I have a professional commission for you, but absolute secrecy is quite essential,

and we feel we may expect that more from a man who is alone than from one who has a family.’

“ ‘If I promise to keep a secret,’ said I, ‘you may absolutely depend upon my doing so.’

“He looked very hard at me as I spoke, and it seemed to me that I had never seen so suspicious and questioning an eye.

“ ‘Do you promise, then?’ said he at last.

“ ‘Yes, I promise.’

“ ‘Very good.’ He suddenly sprang up, ran across the room, and quickly opened the door. The passage outside was empty.

“ ‘Now we can talk in safety.’

He pulled up his chair very close to mine and began to stare at me again with the same questioning and thoughtful look.

“I felt a feeling of repulsion (反感) , and even fear, at the strange behaviour of this fleshless (消瘦的) man.

Even my dread of losing a client could not restrain me from showing my impatience.

“ ‘Please state your business, sir,’ said l, ‘my time is of value.’

May I be forgiven for telling such a lie!

“ ‘How would fifty pounds for a night’s work suit you?’ he asked.

“ ‘Most admirably.’

“ ‘I say a night’s work, but it might be only an hour.

I simply want your opinion about a hydraulic (液压的) stamping machine which has got out of gear.

If you show us what is wrong we can repair it ourselves. What do you think of a job like that?’

“ ‘The work appears to be easy and the pay generous.’

“ ‘So it is. We shall want you to come tonight by the last train.’

“ ‘Where to?’

“ ‘To Eyford, in Berkshire.

It is a little place near Reading.

There is a train from Paddington which would bring you there at about 11:15.’

“ ‘Very good.’

“ ‘I shall come down in a carriage to meet you.’

“ ‘There is a drive, then?’

“ ‘Yes, our little place is quite out in the country.

It is over seven miles from Eyford Station.’

“ ‘Then we can hardly get there before midnight.

I suppose there would be no chance of a train back.

I should have to stay the night.’

“ ‘Yes, we can offer you a room.’

“ ‘That is very awkward.

Could I not come at some more convenient hour?’

“ ‘We have judged it best that you should come late.

It is to compensate you for any inconvenience (不便) that we are paying you, a young and unknown man,

a fee which would buy an opinion from the very heads of your profession.

Still, of course, if you would like to withdraw, there is plenty of time to do so.’

“I thought of the fifty pounds, and of how very useful they would be to me.

‘Not at all,’ said I, ‘I should like, however, to understand a little more clearly what it is that you wish me to do.’

“ ‘Quite so.

The promise of secrecy that we have asked you to make has naturally made you curious.

I have no wish to commit you to anything without giving you a full explanation.

Are you sure no-one can hear us?’

“ ‘Entirely.’

“ ‘This is how it is.

You are probably aware that fuller’s earth is a valuable product, and that it is only found in one or two places in England?’

“ ‘I have heard so.’