Chapter 10
=================
“ ‘Some little time ago I bought a small place—a very small place—within ten miles of Reading.

I was fortunate enough to discover that there was a deposit of fuller’s earth in one of my fields.

On examining it, however, I found that this deposit was a small one,

and that it formed a link between two very much larger ones upon the right and left—both of them, however, in the grounds of my neighbours.

These good people did not know that their land contained that something as valuable as a gold-mine.

Naturally, I wanted to buy their land before they discovered its true value, but unfortunately I did not have the money to do this.

I took a few of my friends into the secret, however,

and they suggested that we should quietly and secretly work our own little deposit, and so earn the money which would enable us to buy the neighbouring fields.

We have now been doing this for some time, and in order to help us in our operations we built a hydraulic (液压的) press.

This press, as I have already explained, has got out of order, and we wish your advice upon the subject.

We guard our secret very carefully, however, and if it once became known that we had hydraulic (水力的) engineers coming to our little house,

people would start asking questions, and then, if the facts came out, it would be goodbye to any chance of getting these fields and carrying out our plans.

That is why I have made you promise me that you will not tell anyone that you are going to Eyford tonight.

I hope that is clear?’

“ ‘I quite follow you,’ said I.

‘But why use a hydraulic (液压的) press in mining fuller’s earth, which, as I understand, is dug out like gravel from a pit?’

“ ‘Ah!’ said he carelessly, ‘we have our own process.

We compress the earth into bricks, so as to remove them without revealing what they are.

But that is a mere detail.

I have taken you fully into my confidence now, Mr. Hatherley, and I have shown you how I trust you.’

He rose as he spoke.

‘I shall expect you, then, at Eyford at 11:15.’

“ ‘I shall certainly be there.’

“ ‘And not a word to anyone.’

He looked at me with a last long, questioning gaze, and then, pressing my hand in a cold grasp, he hurried from the room.

“Well, when I came to think it all over, on the one hand, of course,

I was glad, for the fee was at least ten times what I would have asked if I had set a price upon my own services,

and it was possible that this order might lead to other ones.

On the other hand, the face and manners of my client had made an unpleasant impression upon me,

and I did not think that his explanation of the fuller’s earth was sufficient to explain the necessity for my coming at midnight,

and his extreme anxiety that I should not tell anyone of my errand (差事) .

However, I ignored my fears, ate a large supper, drove to Paddington, and started off, having obeyed the instruction not to tell anyone.

“At Reading I had to change not only my carriage but my station.

However, I was in time for the last train to Eyford, and I reached the little station after eleven o’clock.

I was the only passenger who got out there, and there was no one upon the platform except a single sleepy porter with a lantern.

As I passed out through the gate, however, I found my acquaintance of the morning waiting in the shadow upon the other side.

Without a word he grasped my arm and hurried me into a carriage, the door of which was standing open.

He pulled up the windows on either side, tapped on the side of the cab, and away we went as fast as the horse could go.”

“One horse?” interrupted Holmes.

“Yes, only one.”

“Did you observe the colour?”

“Yes, I saw it by the side-lights when I was stepping into the carriage. It was a light brown colour.”

“Tired-looking or fresh?”

“Oh, fresh—not tired at all.”

“Thank you. I am sorry to have interrupted you.

Please continue your most interesting statement.”

“We drove for at least an hour.

Colonel Stark had said that it was only seven miles, but I should think, from our speed and the time that we took, that it must have been nearer twelve.

He sat at my side in silence all the time, and I noticed that he was looking at me with great intensity.

The country roads are quite bad in that part of the world, for we lurched and jolted terribly.

I tried to look out of the windows to see where we were, but they were made of frosted glass,

and I could see nothing except the occasional bright blur of a passing light.

Now and then I would try to start a conversation, but the colonel answered only in one-word answers.

At last the bumping of the road was replaced by the crisp smoothness of a gravel road, and the carriage came to a stop.

Colonel Stark sprang out, and, as I followed after him, pulled me swiftly into the house.

We stepped, as it were, right out of the carriage and into the hall, so that I saw nothing of the front of the house.

The moment I entered, the door slammed heavily behind us, and I heard the carriage drive away.

“It was completely dark inside the house, and the colonel fumbled about looking for matches and muttering (喃喃自语) under his breath.

Suddenly a door opened at the other end of the passage, and a long, golden bar of light shot out in our direction.

It grew broader, and a woman appeared with a lamp in her hand, which she held above her head.

I could see that she was pretty and richly dressed.

She spoke a few words in a foreign language that sounded like a question,

and when my companion replied, she seemed so astonished that the lamp nearly fell from her hand.