Chapter 12
==================
“ ‘We are now,’ said he,

‘actually within the hydraulic (液压的) press, and it would be a particularly unpleasant thing for us if anyone were to turn it on.

The ceiling (天花板) of this small room is really the end of the descending piston, and it comes down with the force of many tons upon this metal floor.

There are small cylinders of water outside which receive the force, and which transmit and multiply it in the manner which is familiar to you.

The machine goes readily enough, but there is some stiffness in the working of it,

and it has lost a little of its force. Please look at it and show us how we can set it right.’

“I took the lamp from him, and I examined the machine very thoroughly.

It was indeed a gigantic one, and capable of enormous pressure.

When I passed outside, however, and pressed down the levers which controlled it,

I knew at once by the whishing sound that there was a slight leakage, which allowed water to escape through one of the side cylinders.

An examination showed that one of the rubber rings around the head of a driving-rod had shrunk so as not quite to fill the cylinder through which it travelled.

This was clearly the cause of the loss of power, and I pointed it out to my companions,

who followed my remarks very carefully and asked several practical questions as to how they should proceed to set it right.

When I had made it clear to them, I returned to the main chamber of the machine and took a good look at it to satisfy my own curiosity.

It was obvious at a glance that the story of the fuller’s earth was not true,

for so powerful an engine would not be needed for so simple a purpose.

The walls were of wood, but the floor consisted of a large iron trough (水槽) ,

and when I came to examine it I could see a layer of crushed metal all over it.

I had stooped and was scraping at this to see exactly what it was when I heard a muttered (咕哝) exclamation in German and saw the skull-like face of the colonel looking down at me.

“ ‘What are you doing there?’ he asked.

“I felt angry at having been tricked by his story.

‘I was admiring your fuller’s earth,’ said I,

‘I think that I should be better able to advise you as to your machine if I knew what the exact purpose was for which it was used.’

“The instant I had spoken I regretted it.

His face set hard, and a cruel light came into his gray eyes.

“ ‘Very well,’ said he, ‘you shall know all about the machine.’

He took a step backward, slammed the little door, and turned the key in the lock.

I rushed towards it and pulled at the handle, but it was quite secure, and did not give in the least to my kicks and blows.

‘Hello!’ I yelled. ‘Hello! Colonel! Let me out!’

“And then suddenly in the silence I heard a sound which sent my heart into my mouth.

It was the clank (叮当声) of the levers and the hissing (嘶嘶声) of the leaking cylinder.

He had set the engine at work.

The lamp still stood upon the floor where I had placed it when examining the trough (水槽) .

By its light I saw that the black ceiling (天花板) was coming down upon me, slowly, jerkily,

but, as none knew better than myself, with a force which must within a minute grind me to a shapeless pulp (黏浆状物质) .

I threw myself, screaming, against the door, and dragged with my nails at the lock.

I begged the colonel to let me out, but the remorseless (无情的) clanking of the levers drowned my cries.

The ceiling (天花板) was only a foot or two above my head, and with my hand upraised I could feel its hard, rough surface.

Then it flashed through my mind that the pain of my death would depend very much upon the position in which I met it.

If I lay on my face the weight would come upon my spine, and I shuddered to think of that dreadful snap.

Easier the other way, perhaps; and yet, was I brave enough to lie and look up at that deadly black shadow coming down upon me?

Already I was unable to stand upright, when my eye caught something which brought hope back to my heart.


“I have said that though the floor and ceiling (天花板) were of iron, the walls were of wood.

As I gave a last hurried look around,

I saw a thin line of yellow light between two of the boards, which broadened and broadened as a small panel was pushed backward.

For an instant I could hardly believe that here was indeed a door which led away from death.

The next instant I threw myself through, and lay half-fainting upon the other side.

The panel had closed again behind me,

but the crash of the lamp, and a few moments afterwards the clang (撞击声) of the two blocks of metal, told me how narrow had been my escape.

“I felt a frantic plucking at my wrist, and I found myself lying upon the stone floor of a narrow corridor,

while a woman bent over me and pulled at me with her left hand, while she held a candle in her right.

It was the same good friend whose warning I had so foolishly rejected.

“ ‘Come! come!’ she cried breathlessly.

‘They will be here in a moment.

They will see that you are not there.

Oh, do not waste the so-precious time, but come!’

“This time, at least, I did not reject her advice.

I staggered to my feet and ran with her along the corridor and down a staircase.

This led to another broad passage, and just as we reached it we heard the sound of running feet and the shouting of two voices,

one from the floor on which we were and the other from the one beneath.

My guide stopped and looked desperately about her.

Then she threw open a door which led into a bedroom, through the window of which the moon was shining brightly.