Chapter 18
==============
He was a large man with rounded shoulders, a massive head, and a broad, intelligent face, sloping down to a pointed beard of brown hair turning to gray.

A touch of red in nose and cheeks, with a slight trembling of his extended hand, recalled Holmes’s deductions (推测) about his habits.

His dirty black overcoat was buttoned up in front, with the collar turned up, and his thin wrists stuck out from his sleeves without a sign of cuff (袖口) or shirt.

He spoke in a slow, hesitant (迟疑的) manner, choosing his words with care, and gave the impression of a man of learning who has had a long period of bad luck.


“We kept these things for some days,” said Holmes, “because we expected to see an advertisement from you giving your address.

Why did you not advertise?”

Our visitor laughed in embarrassment.

“Money has not been so plentiful with me as it used to be,” he remarked.

“I was sure that the gang of roughs who attacked me had carried off both my hat and the bird.

I did not care to spend more money in a hopeless attempt at recovering them.”

“Very natural.

By the way, we had to eat the goose.”

“To eat it!” Our visitor half rose from his chair in his excitement.

“Yes, it would have been of no use to anyone had we not done so.

But I presume (推测) that this other goose upon the sideboard (餐具柜) , which is about the same weight and perfectly fresh, will suit your purpose equally well?”

“Oh, certainly, certainly,” answered Mr. Baker with a sigh of relief.

“Of course, we still have the feathers, legs, crop, and so on of your own bird, so if you wish—”

The man burst into a hearty laugh.

“They might be souvenirs of my adventure,” said he,

“but beyond that I can hardly see what use the leftover remains of my late acquaintance are going to be to me.

No, sir, I think that, with your permission, I will just take the excellent bird which I see upon the sideboard (餐具柜) .”

Sherlock Holmes glanced sharply across at me with a slight shrug of his shoulders.

“There is your hat, then, and there your bird,” said he.

“By the way, could you tell me where you got the other one from?

I am somewhat of an expert on geese, and I have seldom seen a better grown goose.”

“Certainly, sir,” said Baker, who had risen and tucked his newly gained property under his arm.

“There are a few of us who spend our evenings at the Alpha Inn, near the Museum—

we are to be found in the Museum itself during the day, you understand.

This year our good host, Windigate by name, started a goose club,

by which, in exchange for a few pence every week, we were each to receive a bird at Christmas.

My pence were duly paid, and the rest is familiar to you.

I thank you, sir, since a cloth cap is suitable neither for my age nor for my status.”

Then he bowed solemnly to both of us and strode off upon his way.

“So much for Mr. Henry Baker,” said Holmes when he had closed the door behind him.

“It is quite certain that he knows nothing whatever about the matter. Are you hungry, Watson?”

“Not particularly.”

“Then I suggest that we turn our dinner into a supper and follow up this clue while it is still hot.”

“By all means.”

It was a bitterly cold night, so we put on our overcoats and wrapped scarves about our throats.

Outside, the stars were shining coldly in a cloudless sky, and the breath of the passers-by blew out into smoke like so many pistol shots.

Our footsteps rang out crisply and loudly as we swung through the doctors’ quarter, Wimpole Street, Harley Street, and so through Wigmore Street into Oxford Street.

In a quarter of an hour we were in Bloomsbury at the Alpha Inn, which is a small public-house near the British Museum.

Holmes pushed open the door of the private bar and ordered two glasses of beer from the red-faced, white-aproned landlord.

“Your beer should be excellent if it is as good as your geese,” said he.

“My geese!” The man seemed surprised.

“Yes. I was speaking only half an hour ago to Mr. Henry Baker, who was a member of your goose club.”

“Ah! But you see, sir, they’re not our geese.”

“Indeed! Whose are they, then?”

“Well, I got the two dozen from a salesman in Covent Garden.”

“Indeed? I know some of them. Which was it?”

“Breckinridge is his name.”

“Ah! I don’t know him. Well, here’s your good health landlord, and prosperity to your house. Good night.”

“Now for Mr. Breckinridge,” he continued, buttoning up his coat as we came out into the frosty air.

“Remember, Watson, that though we have so homely a thing as a goose at one end of this chain,

we have at the other a man who will certainly get seven years in prison unless we can prove his innocence.

It is possible that our inquiry may only confirm his guilt but,

in any case, we have a line of investigation which has been missed by the police, and which good luck has placed in our hands.

Let us follow it to the end. Faces to the south, then, and quick march!”