Chapter 19
=============
We passed across Holborn, down Endell Street, and so through a zigzag (之字形) of slums to Covent Garden Market.

One of the largest stalls bore the name of Breckinridge upon it,

and the proprietor (经营者) , a horsy-looking man with a sharp face and long side-whiskers, was helping a boy to put up the shutters.

“Good evening. It’s a cold night,” said Holmes.

The salesman nodded and shot a questioning glance at my companion.

“Sold out of geese, I see,” continued Holmes, pointing at the bare slabs of marble.

“I could let you have five hundred tomorrow morning.”

“That’s no good.”

“Well, there are some on that stall over there.”

“Ah, but I was recommended to you.”

“Who by?”

“The landlord of the Alpha.”

“Oh, yes; I sent him a couple of dozen.”

“Fine birds they were, too. Now where did you get them from?”

To my surprise the question provoked a burst of anger from the salesman.

“Now, then, mister,” he said, gesturing wildly with his arms, “what are you driving at? Let’s have it straight, now.”

“It is straight enough.

I should like to know who sold you the geese which you supplied to the Alpha.”

“Well, I shan’t tell you!”

“Oh, it is a matter of no importance; but I don’t know why you should be so angry over such a small thing.”

“Angry! You’d be just as angry, maybe, if you were being bothered as much as I am.

When I pay good money for a good article there should be an end of the business; but it’s ‘Where are the geese?’

and ‘Who did you sell the geese to?’ and ‘What will you take for the geese?’

One would think they were the only geese in the world, to hear the fuss that is made over them.”

“Well, I have no connection with any other people who have been making inquiries,” said Holmes carelessly.

“If you won’t tell us, then the bet is off, that is all.

But I’m always ready to back my opinion on a matter of geese, and I have bet five pounds that the bird I ate is country bred.”

“Well, then, you’ve lost your five pounds, for it’s town bred,” snapped the salesman.

“It’s nothing of the kind.”

“I say it is.”

“I don’t believe it.”

“Do you think you know more about geese than I, who have handled them ever since I was a boy?

I tell you, all those birds that went to the Alpha were town bred.”

“You’ll never persuade me to believe that.”

“Will you bet, then?”

“It’s taking your money, for I know that I am right.

But I’ll bet you a pound, just to teach you not to be stubborn.”

The salesman chuckled grimly.

“Bring me the books, Bill,” said he.

The small boy brought round a small thin account-book and a much larger, dirtier one, laying them out together beneath the hanging lamp.

“Now then, Mr. Cocksure (过分自信的) ,” said the salesman,

“I thought that I was out of geese, but before I finish you’ll find that there is still one left in my shop.

You see this little book?

That’s the list of the folk from whom I buy.

Do you see? Well, then, here on this page are the country suppliers, and the numbers after their names are where their accounts are in the big account-book.

Now, you see this other page in red ink?

Well, that is a list of my town suppliers.

Now, look at that third name.

Just read it out to me.”

“Mrs. Oakshott, 117, Brixton Road—249,” read Holmes.

“Quite so. Now turn that up in the account-book.”

Holmes turned to page 249.

“Here you are, ‘Mrs. Oakshott, 117, Brixton Road, egg and poultry supplier.’ ”

“Now, then, what’s the last entry?”

“ ‘December 22nd. Twenty-four geese at 7 shillings and sixpence (六便士) . ’ ”

“Quite so.

There you are. And underneath?”

“ ‘Sold to Mr. Windigate of the Alpha, at 12 shillings.’ ”

“What have you to say now?”

Sherlock Holmes looked deeply upset.

He took a pound coin out of his pocket and threw it down on the counter,

turning away with the look of a man whose disgust is too deep for words.

A few yards off he stopped under a lamp-post and laughed in the hearty, noiseless fashion which was peculiar to him.

“When you see a man like that with the Racing Times sticking out of his pocket, you can always draw him by a bet,” said he.

“If I had offered him a hundred pounds, cash, that man would not have told me as much as he did when he thought he was winning a bet.

Well, Watson, I think we are nearing the end of our search—

we just need to decide whether we should go on to this Mrs. Oakshott tonight, or whether we should wait for tomorrow.

It is clear that there are others besides ourselves who are anxious about the matter, and I should—”

His remarks were interrupted by a loud argument starting at the stall which we had just left.