Chapter 14
================
“Really, now!” cried the inspector, “you have formed your opinion!

Come, now, we shall see who agrees with you.

I say it is south, for the country is more deserted there.”
x
“And I say east,” said my patient.

“I say west,” remarked the other policeman.

“There are several quiet little villages up there.”

“And I say north,” said I, “because there are no hills there, and our friend says that he did not notice the carriage go up any.”

The inspector laughed.

“There are a great variety of opinions.

Who do you give your casting vote to, Mr Holmes?”

“You are all wrong.”

“But we can’t all be.”

“Oh, yes, you can.

This is my point.”

He placed his finger in the centre of the circle.

“This is where we shall find them.”

“But the twelve-mile drive?” gasped Hatherley.

“Six out and six back. Nothing simpler.

You say yourself that the horse was fresh and not tired at all when you got in.

How could it be that if it had gone twelve miles over heavy roads?”

“Indeed, it is a likely enough trick,” observed Bradstreet thoughtfully.

“Of course there can be no doubt as to the nature of this gang.”

“None at all,” said Holmes.

“They are criminals who make fake gold and silver coins, and they use the hydraulic (液压的) press to press out the metal.”

“We have known for some time that a clever gang was at work,” said the inspector.

“They have been making thousands of fake coins.

We even traced (追踪) them as far as Reading, but could get no farther, for they had covered their traces (踪迹) in a way that showed that they were very experienced criminals.

But now, thanks to this lucky chance, I think that we have got them right enough.”

But the inspector was mistaken, for those criminals were not destined (注定) to fall into the hands of justice.

As we rolled into Eyford Station we saw a gigantic column of smoke

which streamed up from behind a small clump (丛) of trees in the neighbourhood and hung like an giant feather over the landscape.

“A house on fire?” asked Bradstreet as the train steamed off again on its way.

“Yes, sir!” said the station-master.

“When did it start?”

“I hear that it was during the night, sir, but it has got worse, and the whole place is burning.”

“Whose house is it?”

“Dr. Becher’s.”

“Tell me,” broke in the engineer, “is Dr. Becher a German, very thin, with a long, sharp nose?”

The station-master laughed heartily.

“No, sir, Dr. Becher is an Englishman, and he is always too big for his clothes.

But he has a gentleman staying with him, a patient, as I understand,

who is a foreigner, and he looks as if a little good beef to eat would do him no harm.”

The station-master had not finished his speech before we were all hurrying in the direction of the fire.

There was a great building in front of us, spouting fire at every window,

while in the garden in front three fire-engines were trying without success to put out the flames.

“That’s it!” cried Hatherley, in intense excitement.

“There is the gravel-drive, and there are the rose-bushes where I lay.

That second window is the one that I jumped from.”

“Well, at least,” said Holmes, “you have had your revenge upon them.

There can be no question that it was your oil-lamp which, when it was crushed in the press, set fire to the wooden walls,

though no doubt they were too excited in the chase after you to notice it at the time.

Now keep your eyes open in this crowd for your friends of last night, though I very much fear that they are a good hundred miles off by now.”


And Holmes’s fears came to be realized,

for from that day to this no word has ever been heard either of the beautiful woman, the sinister (阴险的) German, or the gloomy Englishman.

Early that morning a peasant had met a cart containing several people and some very large boxes driving rapidly in the direction of Reading,

but there all traces (痕迹) of the fugitives disappeared, and even Holmes’s ingenuity failed ever to discover the least clue as to their whereabouts (行踪) .

The firemen had been much disturbed at the strange arrangements which they had found within,

and still more so by discovering a newly severed human thumb upon a window-sill of the second floor.

About sunset, however, their efforts were at last successful,

and they put out the flames, but not before the roof had fallen in, and the whole place been reduced to such absolute ruin that,

except for some twisted cylinders and iron piping, not a trace (痕迹) remained of the machinery which had cost our unfortunate acquaintance so dearly.

Large masses of nickel and of tin were discovered stored in a building on the property,

but no coins were found, which may explain those bulky boxes with which the criminals escaped.

How our hydraulic (水力的) engineer had been conveyed from the garden to the spot

where he recovered his senses might have remained forever a mystery were it not for the soft mud, which told us a very plain tale.

He had evidently been carried down by two persons, one of whom had remarkably small feet and the other unusually large ones.

On the whole, it was most probable that the silent Englishman, being less bold or less murderous than his companion,

had helped the woman to carry the unconscious man out of the way of danger.

“Well,” said our engineer sadly as we took our seats to return once more to London, “it has been a terrible business for me!

I have lost my thumb and I have lost a fifty-pound fee, and what have I gained?”

“Experience,” said Holmes.

“Indirectly it may be of some value to you—at least, let us all hope so.”