Chapter 17
==============
“Hotel Cosmopolitan Jewel Robbery.

John Horner, 26, was brought up upon the charge of having on December 22nd taken from the jewel-case of the Countess of Morcar

the valuable gem (宝石) known as the blue carbuncle (红玉) .

James Ryder, senior attendant at the hotel,

said in evidence that he had shown Horner up to the dressing-room of the Countess of Morcar on the day of the robbery

in order that he might fix the second bar of the grate (壁炉) , which was loose.

He had remained with Horner some little time, but had finally been called away.

On returning, he found that Horner had disappeared,

that the desk had been forced open, and that the small leather case in which the Countess used to keep her jewels was lying empty upon the dressing-table.

Ryder instantly gave the alarm, and Horner was arrested the same evening;

but the stone could not be found either upon his person or in his rooms.

Catherine Cusack, maid to the Countess,

stated that she had heard Ryder’s cry of dismay on discovering the robbery, and rushed into the room,

where she found matters as described by the last witness.

Inspector Bradstreet, B division, gave evidence as to the arrest of Horner, who struggled frantically, and protested his innocence in the strongest terms.

After evidence of a previous conviction for robbery had been given against the prisoner, the judge referred the case to the Assizes.

Horner, who had shown signs of intense emotion during the proceedings, fainted away and was carried out of court.

“Hum! So much for the police-court,” said Holmes thoughtfully, tossing aside the paper.

“The question for us now to solve

is the sequence of events leading from a robbed jewel-case at one end to the crop of a goose in Tottenham Court Road at the other.

You see, Watson, our little deductions (推测) have suddenly assumed a much more important and less innocent aspect.

Here is the stone; the stone came from the goose, and the goose came from Mr. Henry Baker,

the gentleman with the old hat and all the other characteristics with which I have bored you.

So now we must set ourselves very seriously to finding this gentleman and finding out what part he has played in this little mystery.

To do this, we must try the simplest method first—an advertisement in all the evening papers.

If this fails, I shall have to use other methods.”

“What will you say?”

“Give me a pencil and that piece of paper. Now, then:

“Found at the corner of Goodge Street, a goose and a black felt hat.

Mr. Henry Baker can have them by applying at 6:30 this evening at 221B, Baker Street.

That is clear and concise.”

“Very. But will he see it?”

“Well, he is sure to keep an eye on the papers, since, to a poor man, the loss was a heavy one.

He was clearly so scared by his unfortunately breaking the window and by the approach of Peterson that he thought of nothing but escape,

but since then he must have bitterly regretted the impulse which caused him to drop his bird.

Then, again, the mention of his name will cause him to see it, for everyone who knows him will direct his attention to it.

Here you are, Peterson, run down to the advertising agency and have this put in the evening papers.”

“In which, sir?”

“Oh, in the Globe, Star, Pall Mall, St. James’s, Evening News Standard, Echo, and any others that occur to you.”

“Very well, sir. And this stone?”

“Ah, yes, I shall keep the stone.

Thank you.

And Peterson, please buy a goose on your way back and leave it here with me,

for we must have one to give to this gentleman in place of the one which your family is now eating.”

When Peterson had gone, Holmes took up the stone and held it against the light.

“It’s a beautiful thing,” said he.

“Just see how it glints and sparkles.

Of course it is a cause and focus of crime.

Every good stone is.

They are the devil (恶魔) ’s favorite bait (诱饵) . In the larger and older jewels every facet (面) may stand for a bloody deed.

This stone is not yet twenty years old.

It was found on the banks of the Amoy River in southern China and is remarkable in having every characteristic of the carbuncle (红玉) ,

except that it is blue in colour instead of ruby (红宝石的) red.

In spite of its youth, it has already a sinister (灾难性的) history.

There have been two murders, an acid-throwing, a suicide, and several robberies committed for the sake of this forty-grain weight of crystallized charcoal.

Who would think that so pretty a toy could lead to the gallows (绞刑) and the prison?

I’ll lock it up in my safe box now and write to the Countess to say that we have it.”

“Do you think that this man Horner is innocent?”

“I cannot tell.”

“Well, then, do you imagine that this other one, Henry Baker, had anything to do with the matter?”

“It is, I think, much more likely that Henry Baker is an absolutely innocent man,

who had no idea that the bird which he was carrying was of considerably more value than if it were made of solid gold.

That, however, I shall determine by a very simple test if we have an answer to our advertisement.”

“And you can do nothing until then?”

“Nothing.”

“In that case I shall continue my professional round.

But I shall come back in the evening at the hour you have mentioned, for I should like to see the solution of so tangled a business.”

“I shall be very glad to see you.

I dine at seven.

We are having a duck, I believe. By the way, in view of recent occurrences, perhaps I ought to ask Mrs. Hudson to examine its crop.”

I had been delayed with a patient, and it was a little after half-past six when I found myself in Baker Street once more.

As I approached the house,

I saw a tall man in a cloth cap with a coat buttoned up to his chin, waiting outside in the light from the street lamp.

Just as l arrived the door was opened, and we were shown up together to Holmes’s room.

“Mr. Henry Baker, I believe,” said he, rising from his armchair and greeting his visitor with the easy air of geniality (亲切) which he could so readily assume.

“Please take this chair by the fire, Mr. Baker. Watson, you have just come at the right time.

Is that your hat, Mr. Baker?”

“Yes, sir, that is undoubtedly my hat.”