Chapter 20
==================
Turning round we saw a little rat-faced fellow standing in the centre of the circle of yellow light which was thrown by the swinging lamp,

while Breckinridge, the salesman, was shaking his fists fiercely.

“I’ve had enough of you and your geese,” he shouted.

“To hell with you! If you bother me again I’ll set the dog on you.

You bring Mrs. Oakshott here and I’ll answer her, but what have you to do with it?

Did I buy the geese from you?”

“No; but one of them was mine all the same,” complained the little man.

“Well, then, ask Mrs. Oakshott for it.”

“She told me to ask you.”

“I don’t care who you ask—I’ve had enough of it.

Get out of here!” He rushed fiercely forward, and the inquirer ran away into the darkness.

“Ha! This may save us a visit to Brixton Road,” whispered Holmes.

“Come with me, and we will see what this fellow can tell us.”

Moving quickly, my companion soon caught up with the little man and touched him on the shoulder.

He sprang round, and I could see in the gas-light that his face had turned completely white.

“Who are you, and what do you want?” he asked in a frightened voice.

“I could not help overhearing (无意中听到) the questions which you asked the salesman just now.

I think that I might be able to help you.”

“You? Who are you? How could you know about this?”

“My name is Sherlock Holmes.

It is my business to know what other people don’t know.”

“But surely you can know nothing about this?”

“I know everything.

You are trying to find some geese which were sold by Mrs. Oakshott, of Brixton Road, to a salesman named Breckinridge, who sold them to Mr. Windigate, of the Alpha,

who sold them to his club, of which Mr. Henry Baker is a member.”

“Oh, sir, you are the very man whom I have longed to meet,” cried the little fellow with outstretched hands and quivering fingers.

“I can hardly explain to you how interested I am in this matter.”

Sherlock Holmes hailed a passing cab.

“In that case we had better discuss it in a cosy room rather than in this wind-swept market-place,” said he.

“But please tell me, before we go farther, who it is that I am helping.”

The man hesitated for an instant.

“My name is John Robinson,” he answered with a sidelong (斜的) glance.

“No, no; the real name,” said Holmes sweetly.

“It is always awkward doing business under a false name.”

A flush sprang to the white cheeks of the stranger.

“Well then,” said he, “my real name is James Ryder.”

“Precisely so.

Head attendant at the Hotel Cosmopolitan.

Please step into the cab, and I shall soon be able to tell you everything you want to know.”

The little man stood glancing from one to the other of us with half-frightened, half-hopeful eyes,

as one who is not sure whether he is on the verge of good luck or of a catastrophe.

Then he stepped into the cab, and in half an hour we were back in the sitting-room at Baker Street.

Nothing had been said during our drive, but the high, thin breathing of our new companion,

and the claspings and unclaspings of his hands, spoke of the nervous tension within him.

“Here we are!” said Holmes cheerily as we walked into the room.

“A fire is a wonderful thing in this weather.

You look cold, Mr. Ryder. Please take the armchair.

I will just put on my slippers before we settle this little matter of yours.

Now, you want to know what became of those geese?”

“Yes, sir.”

“Or rather, I think, of one particular goose—white, with a black bar across the tail.”

Ryder quivered with emotion.

“Oh, sir,” he cried, “can you tell me where it went to?”

“It came here.”

“Here?”

“Yes, and a most remarkable bird it was.

No wonder you found it so interesting.

It laid an egg after it was dead—the prettiest, brightest little blue egg that ever was seen. I have it here.”

Holmes unlocked his safe-box and held up the blue carbuncle (红玉) , which shone out like a star, with a cold, brilliant, many-pointed radiance.

Ryder looked at it in shock, uncertain whether to claim ownership or deny it.

“The game’s over, Ryder,” said Holmes quietly.

“Be careful, or you’ll fall into the fire! Help him into his chair, Watson.

Give him some brandy!

Now he looks a little more human.

He’s too weak a man to get away with such a crime!”

For a moment Ryder had staggered and nearly fallen,

but the brandy brought the colour back into his cheeks, and he sat staring with frightened eyes at his accuser.

“I have almost every link in my hands, and all the proofs which I could possibly need, so there is little which you need tell me.

Still, that little may as well be cleared up to make the case complete.

You had heard, Ryder, of this blue stone of the Countess of Morcar’s?”

“It was Catherine Cusack who told me about it,” he said in a frightened voice.

“I see—the Countess’s maid.

Well, the temptation of sudden wealth so easily acquired was too much for you, as it has been for better men before you;

but you were rather underhand (秘密的) in the means you used.

You knew that Horner, the workman, had been found guilty of theft before, and that he would be the first to be suspected.

You invented some small job in the Countess’s room—you and your confederate (同谋者) Cusack—and you arranged that Horner should be the man sent for.

Then, when he had left, you robbed the jewel-case, raised the alarm, and had this unfortunate man arrested. You then—”

Ryder threw himself down suddenly upon the rug and clutched at my companion’s knees.

“For God’s sake (看在上帝的份上) , have mercy!” he shrieked.

“Think of my father! Of my mother! It would break their hearts.

I never went wrong before! I never will again.

I swear it.

I’ll swear it on a Bible.

Oh, don’t bring it into court!”


“Get back into your chair!” said Holmes sternly.

“You may beg now, but you never worried about accusing poor Horner of a crime of which he knew nothing.”

“I will leave the country, sir. Then he cannot be found guilty.”

“Hum! We will talk about that.

And now let us hear a true account of the next act.

How did the stone get into the goose, and how did the goose get into the open market?

Tell us the truth, for in it is your only hope of safety.”