Chapter 6
====================
“This complicates matters,” said Gregson.

“Heaven knows, they were complicated enough before.”

“You’re sure it doesn’t make things simpler?” said Holmes.

“There’s nothing to be learned by staring at it. What did you find in his pockets?”

“We have it all here,” said Gregson, pointing to a few of the items upon the bottom steps of the stairs.

“A gold watch by Barraud of London.

A gold Albert chain, very heavy and solid.

A gold pin—bull-dog’s head, with rubies as eyes.

Russian leather card-case, with cards of Enoch J. Drebber of Cleveland, which matches the E. J. D. marked on his clothes.

No wallet, but change in the amount of seven pounds.

Two letters—one addressed to E. J. Drebber and one to Joseph Stangerson.”

“At what address?”

“American Exchange, Strand—to be left till called for.

They are both from the Guion Steamship Company, and are about the sailing times of their boats from Liverpool.

It is clear that this unfortunate man was about to return to New York.”

“Have you made any inquiries about this man, Stangerson?”

“I did so at once, sir,” said Gregson.

“I have had advertisements sent to all the newspapers, and one of my men has gone to the American Exchange, but he has not returned yet.”

“Have you contacted Cleveland?”

“Yes, this morning.”

“What did you say?”

“We simply explained the situation, and said that we should be glad of any information which could help us.”

“You did not ask for any details which appeared to you to be crucial?”

“I asked about Stangerson.”

“Nothing else? Are there details which seem to you to be important? Will you contact them again?”

“I have said all I have to say,” said Gregson, in an unhappy voice.

Sherlock Holmes laughed to himself, and appeared to be about to make some remark, when Lestrade, who had been in the front room while we were having this conversation in the hall, returned to the scene.

He rubbed his hands in a proud and self-satisfied manner.

“Mr. Gregson,” he said, “I have just made a discovery of the highest importance,

and one which would have been missed if I had not made a careful examination of the walls.”

“Come here,” he said, rushing back into the room.

The atmosphere of the room felt clearer since the removal of the dead man.

“Now, stand there!”

He struck a match on his boot and held it up against the wall.

“Look at that!” he said, proudly.

I have remarked that the wallpaper had fallen away in parts.

In one corner of the room, a large piece had peeled off, leaving a yellow square of rough plaster.

Across this bare space there was blood-red letters, a single word—

RACHE

“What do you think of that?” cried Lestrade, “this was missed because it was in the darkest corner of the room, and no one thought of looking there.

The murderer has written it with his or her own blood.

See this smear (血迹) where it has trickled down the wall!

That eliminates the idea of suicide.

Why was that corner chosen to write it on? I will tell you.

See that candle on the mantelpiece (壁炉台) .

It was lit at the time, and if it was lit this corner would be the brightest instead of the darkest part of the room.”

“And what does it mean now that you have found it?” asked Gregson in a critical voice.

“Mean? It means that the writer was going to put the female name Rachel, but was disturbed before he or she had time to finish.

Remember my words, when this case comes to be cleared up you will find that a woman named Rachel has something to do with it.

It’s all very well for you to laugh, Mr. Sherlock Holmes.

You may be very smart and clever, but the old dog is the best, when all is said and done.”

“I really beg your pardon!” said my companion, who had irritated the little man by bursting into laughter.

“You do have the credit of being the first of us to find this out.

As you say, it bears every mark of having been written by the murderer in last night’s mystery.

I have not had time to examine this room yet, but with your permission, I will do so now.”

As he spoke, he took a tape measure and a large round magnifying glass from his pocket.

With these two tools he walked noiselessly about the room, sometimes stopping, occasionally kneeling, and once lying flat upon his face.


So focused was he upon his task that he appeared to have forgotten our presence.

As I watched him, I was reminded of a pure-blooded well-trained foxhound (猎狐犬) as it ran backwards and forwards,

being hidden, until it comes across the lost scent.

For twenty minutes or more he continued his researches.

In one place he gathered up very carefully a little pile of grey dust from the floor, and packed it away in an envelope.

Finally, he examined with his glass the word upon the wall, going over every letter carefully.

This done, he appeared to be satisfied, for he replaced his tape and his glass in his pocket.

“They say that genius is an infinite capacity for taking pains,” he remarked with a smile.

“It’s a very bad definition, but it does apply to detective work.”

Gregson and Lestrade had watched the movements of their amateur companion with considerable curiosity and some contempt.

They failed to appreciate the fact that Sherlock Holmes’ smallest actions were all directed towards some definite and practical end.

“What do you think of it, sir?” they both asked.

“It would be taking your credit for the case if I was to help you,” remarked my friend.

“You are doing so well now that it would be a pity for anyone to interfere.” There was a world of contempt in his voice as he spoke.

“If you will let me know how your investigations go,” he continued, “I will be happy to give you any help I can.

In the meantime, I should like to speak to the officer who found the body.

Can you give me his name and address?”

Lestrade glanced at his note-book. “John Rance,” he said.

“He is off duty now. You will find him at 46, Audley Court, Kennington Park Gate.”

Holmes took a note of the address.

“Come along, Doctor,” he said, “we should go and call on him.

I’ll tell you one thing which may help you in the case,” he continued, turning to the two detectives.

“There has been murder done, and the murderer was a man.

He was more than six feet high, was in the prime of life.

He had small feet for his height, wore rough, square-toed boots and smoked a Trichinopoly cigar.

He came here with his victim in a four-wheeled cab.

The murderer was likely to have a reddish face, and the finger-nails of his right hand were remarkably long.

These are only a few indications, but they may help you.”

Lestrade and Gregson glanced at each other with a doubtful smile.

“If this man was murdered, how was it done?” asked the former.

“Poison,” said Sherlock Holmes, and walked off.

“One other thing, Lestrade,” he added, turning round at the door: “ ‘Rache’ is the German for ‘revenge’, so don’t lose your time looking for Miss Rachel.”

Then he walked away, leaving the two rivals open-mouthed behind him.