Chapter 16
===============
“You are certainly joking, Holmes.”

“Not in the least.

Is it possible that even now, when I give you these results, you are unable to see how they are attained?”

“I have no doubt that I am very stupid, but I must confess that I am unable to follow you.

For example, how did you deduce that this man was intellectual?”

For answer Holmes clapped the hat upon his head.

It came right over the forehead and settled upon the bridge of his nose.

“It is a question of cubic capacity,” said he, “a man with so large a brain must have something in it.”

“The decline of his fortunes, then?”

“This hat is three years old.

These flat brims curled at the edge were fashionable then.

It is a hat of the very best quality.

Look at the band of ribbed silk and the excellent lining.

If this man could afford to buy so expensive a hat three years ago,

and has had no new hat since, then he must have gone down in the world.”

“Well, that is clear enough, certainly.

But how about the foresight (远见) and the moral decline?”

Sherlock Holmes laughed.

“Here is the foresight (远见) ,” said he putting his finger upon the little disc and loop of the hat-strap.

“They are never sold upon hats.

If this man ordered one, it is a sign of a certain amount of foresight (远见) , since he went out of his way to take this precaution against the wind.

But since we see that he has broken the elastic and has not bothered to replace it,

it is obvious that he has less foresight (远见) now than before, which is a definite proof of a weakening nature.

On the other hand, he has tried to conceal some of these stains with ink, which is a sign that he has not entirely lost his self-respect.”

“Your reasoning is certainly plausible.”

“The further points, that he is middle-aged, that his hair is going gray, that it has been recently cut,

and that he uses hair-oil, are all to be gathered from a close examination of the lower part of the lining.

The lens reveals a large number of hair-ends, clean cut by the scissors of the barber.

They are sticky, and there is a distinct smell of hair-oil.

This dust, you will observe, is not the gritty (有沙砾的) , gray dust of the street but the fluffy (毛茸茸的) brown dust of the house,

showing that it has been hung up indoors most of the time,

while the marks of moisture upon the inside are proof positive that the wearer was sweating very freely, and could, therefore, hardly be in the best of health.”

“But his wife—you said that she had ceased to love him.”

“This hat has not been brushed for weeks.

When I see you, my dear Watson, with a week’s accumulation of dust upon your hat,

and when your wife allows you to go out in such a state, I shall fear that you also have been unfortunate enough to lose your wife’s affection.”

“But he might be a bachelor.”

“No, he was bringing home the goose as a peace-offering to his wife.

Remember the card attached to the bird’s leg.”

“You have an answer to everything.

But how on earth do you deduce that the gas is not laid on in his house?”

“One spot of candle-wax, or even two, might come by chance;

but when I see no less than five, I think that there can be little doubt that the individual must be brought into frequent contact with burning candles—

he probably walks upstairs at night with his hat in one hand and a candle in the other.

At least, that candle-wax could never come from a gas light. Are you satisfied?”

“Well, it is very ingenious,” said I, laughing,

“but since, as you said just now, there has been no crime committed,

and no harm done except the loss of a goose, all this seems to be rather a waste of energy.”

Sherlock Holmes had opened his mouth to reply, when the door flew open,

and Peterson rushed into the apartment with flushed cheeks and the face of a man who is dazed (眩晕的) with astonishment.

“The goose, Mr. Holmes! The goose, sir!” he gasped.

“What about it? Has it returned to life and flapped off through the kitchen window?”

Holmes twisted himself round upon the sofa to get a better view of the man’s excited face.

“See here, sir! See what my wife found in its crop!”

He held out his hand and displayed upon the centre of the palm a brilliantly sparkling blue stone,

rather smaller than a bean in size, but of such purity and radiance that it twinkled like an electric point in the dark hollow of his hand.


Sherlock Holmes sat up with a whistle.

“Peterson!” said he, “this is treasure indeed.

I suppose you know what you have got?”

“A diamond, sir? A precious stone.

It cuts into glass as though it were butter.”

“It’s more than a precious stone.

It is the precious stone.”

“Not the Countess of Morcar’s blue carbuncle (红玉) !” I exclaimed.

“Precisely so.

l ought to know its size and shape, since I have read the advertisement about it in The Times every day lately.

It is absolutely unique, and its value can only be guessed at, but the reward offered of a thousand pounds is certainly not a twentieth of the market price.”

“A thousand pounds! Great Lord of mercy!”

Peterson collapsed into a chair and stared from one to the other of us.

“That is the reward,

and I have reason to know that there are sentimental considerations in the background

which would induce the Countess to part with half her fortune if she could only recover the gem (宝石) .”

“It was lost, if I remember correctly, at the Hotel Cosmopolitan,” I remarked.

“Precisely so, on December 22nd, just five days ago.

John Horner, a workman at the hotel, was accused of having taken it from the lady’s jewel-case.

The evidence against him was so strong that he has been arrested and will go on trial soon. I have an account of the matter here, I believe.”

He searched amid his newspapers, glancing over the dates, until at last he smoothed one out, folded it over, and read the following paragraph: