Chapter 15
===============
It was the second morning after Christmas, and I had called upon my friend Sherlock Holmes to wish him a Merry Christmas and a Happy New Year.

He was lounging upon the sofa in his dressing-gown, a pile of crumpled (褶皱的) morning papers, evidently newly studied, nearby.

Hanging on the back of a chair was an old hat, very worn and cracked in several places.

A lens and a pair of tweezers (镊子) lying upon the seat of the chair suggested that the hat had been placed there for the purpose of examination.

“You are busy,” I said, “perhaps I am interrupting you.”

“Not at all.

I am glad to have a friend with whom I can discuss my results.

The matter is a perfectly trivial (琐碎的) one”—he pointed in the direction of the old hat—

“but there are points in connection with it that may prove interesting and even instructive.”

I seated myself in his armchair and warmed my hands before the fire, for a sharp frost had set in, and the windows were thick with ice crystals.

“I suppose,” I remarked, “that, ordinary as it looks, this thing has some deadly story linked on to it—

that it is the clue which will guide you in the solution of some mystery and the punishment of some crime.”

“No, no. No crime,” said Sherlock Holmes, laughing.

“Only one of those strange little incidents which will happen when you have millions of human beings all running into each other within the space of a few square miles.

Amid the action and reaction of so dense a swarm (一大群) of humanity, every possible combination of events may be expected to take place,

and many a little problem will be presented which may be striking and peculiar without being criminal.

You know Peterson, who sometimes runs errands (差事) for me?”

“Yes.”

“He found it.

Its owner is unknown.

Please look upon it not just as an old hat, but as an intellectual problem.

It arrived here on Christmas morning, together with a good fat goose, which is, I have no doubt, roasting at this moment in front of Peterson’s fire.

About four o’clock on Christmas morning, Peterson was returning from a small celebration and was coming home along Tottenham Court Road.

In front of him he saw, by the light of the street lamp, a tall man, walking with difficulty, and carrying a white goose over his shoulder.

As he reached the corner of Goodge Street, a fight broke out between this stranger and a little group of roughs.

One of these knocked off the man’s hat: he raised his stick to defend himself and, swinging it over his head, smashed the shop window behind him.

Peterson had rushed forward to protect the stranger from his attackers;

but the man, shocked at having broken the window, and seeing an official-looking person rushing towards him,

dropped his goose, ran, and vanished among the small streets which lie behind Tottenham Court Road.

The roughs had also fled at the appearance of Peterson, so that he was left with this battered (破旧的) hat and an excellent Christmas goose.”

“Which surely he returned to their owner?”

“My dear fellow, there lies the problem.

It is true that ‘For Mrs. Henry Baker’ was printed upon a small card which was tied to the bird’s left leg,

and it is also true that the initials ‘H. B.’ are written upon the lining of this hat, but as there are some thousands of Bakers,

and some hundreds of Henry Bakers in this city of ours, it is not easy to return lost property to any one of them.”

“What, then, did Peterson do?”


“He brought both hat and goose to me on Christmas morning, knowing that even the smallest problems are of interest to me.

We kept the goose until this morning, when there were signs that, in spite of the slight frost, it had better be eaten soon.

Its finder has carried it off, therefore, to meet the ultimate destiny (命运) of a goose,

while I am left with the hat of the unknown gentleman who has lost his Christmas dinner.”

“Did he not advertise?”

“No.”

“Then, what clue could you have as to his identity?”

“Only as much as we can deduce.”

“From his hat?”

“Precisely.”

“But you are joking. What can you gather from this old battered (破旧的) hat?”

“Here is my lens.

You know my methods.

What can you tell me about the man who has worn this hat?”

I took the battered (破旧的) object in my hands and turned it over.

It was a very ordinary black hat, much worn.

The lining had been of red silk, but was very discoloured.

There was no maker’s name; but, as Holmes had remarked, the initials “H. B.” were scrawled upon one side.

It was pierced in the brim for a hat-strap, but the elastic was missing.

It was cracked, exceedingly dusty, and spotted in several places,

although there seemed to have been some attempt to hide the discoloured patches by smearing them with ink.

“I can see nothing,” said I, handing it back to my friend.

“On the contrary, Watson, you can see everything.

You fail, however, to reason from what you see.

You are too timid in drawing your inferences.”

“Then, please tell me what it is that you can infer from this hat?”

He picked it up and gazed at it in the peculiar introspective (内省的) fashion which was characteristic of him.

“It is perhaps less suggestive than it might have been,” he remarked, “and yet there are a few inferences which are very distinct,

and a few others which represent at least a strong balance of probability.

That the man was highly intellectual is of course obvious upon the face of it,

and also that he has been quite rich within the last three years, although he has now fallen into poverty.

He had foresight (远见) , but has less now than he used to have, which, together with his descent into poverty,

seems to indicate some evil influence, probably drink, at work upon him.

This may also explain why his wife has ceased to love him.”

“My dear Holmes!”

“He has, however, retained some degree of self-respect,” he continued, ignoring me.

“He is a man who spends most of his time indoors, is in poor physical condition, is middle-aged,

has hair that is going gray and which he has had cut within the last few days, and on which he uses hair-oil.

These are the more obvious facts which are to be deduced from his hat.

Also, by the way, that it is extremely improbable that he has gas laid on in his house.”