Chapter 21
===============
“I will tell you it just as it happened, sir,” said Ryder.

“When Horner had been arrested, it seemed to me that it would be best for me to get away with the stone at once,

for I did not know when the police might decide to search me and my room.

There was no place in the hotel where it would be safe.

I went out, pretending to run an errand (差事) , and I went to my sister’s house.

She had married a man named Oakshott, and lived in Brixton Road, where she fattened geese for the market.

On the way there every man I met seemed to me to be a policeman or a detective;

and, even though it was a cold night, the sweat was pouring down my face before I came to the Brixton Road.

My sister asked me what was wrong, and why I was so pale, but I told her that I had been upset by the jewel robbery at the hotel.

Then I smoked a pipe and wondered what it would be best to do.

“I had a friend once called Maudsley, who took to crime and spent some time in Pentonville prison.

One day he met me, and started talking about the methods of thieves, and how they could get rid of what they stole.

I knew that he would be honest with me, because I knew one or two things about him;

so I made up my mind to go right on to Kilburn, where he lived, and tell him everything.

He would show me how to turn the stone into money.

But how to get to him in safety? I thought of the agonies I had gone through in coming from the hotel.

I might at any moment be seized and searched, and there would be the stone in my waistcoat (马甲) pocket.

I was looking at the geese which were waddling about round my feet,

and suddenly an idea came into my head which showed me how I could beat the best detective that ever lived.

“My sister had told me some weeks before that I might have whichever of her geese I chose for a Christmas present, and I knew that she always kept her promises.

I would take my goose now, and in it I would carry my stone to Kilburn.

I caught one of the birds, a fine big white one with a barred tail, opened its beak (喙) , and pushed the stone down its throat as far as my finger could reach.

The bird gave a big gulp (吞咽) , and I felt the stone pass down its throat and into its crop.

But the creature flapped and struggled, and my sister came out to know what was the matter.

As I turned to speak to her, the goose escaped and fluttered off among the others.

“ ‘Whatever were you doing with that bird, Jem?’ says she.

“ ‘Well,’ said I, ‘you said you’d give me one for Christmas, and I was feeling which was the fattest.’

“ ‘Oh,’ says she, ‘we’ve set yours aside for you—Jem’s bird, we call it. It’s the big white one over there.

There’s twenty-six of them, which makes one for you, and one for us, and two dozen for the market.’

“ ‘Thank you, Maggie,’ says l, ‘but if it is all the same to you, I’d rather have that one I was holding just now.’

“ ‘The other is a good three pounds heavier,’ said she, ‘and we fattened it especially for you.’

“ ‘Never mind.

I’ll have the other, and I’ll take it now,’ said I.

“ ‘Oh, just as you like,’ said she, a little annoyed. ‘Which is it you want, then?’

“ ‘That white one with the barred tail, right in the middle of the flock.’

“ ‘Oh, very well.

Kill it and take it with you.’

“Well, I did what she said, Mr. Holmes, and I carried the bird all the way to Kilburn.

I told my pal (伙伴) what I had done, for he was a man that it was easy to tell a thing like that to.

He laughed until he choked, and we got a knife and opened the goose.

My heart turned to water, for there was no sign of the stone, and I knew that some terrible mistake had occurred.

I left the bird rushed back to my sister’s, and hurried into the back yard.

There was not a bird to be seen there.

“ ‘Where are they all, Maggie?’ I cried.

“ ‘Gone to the dealer’s, Jem.’

“ ‘Which dealer’s?’

“ ‘Breckinridge, of Covent Garden.’

“ ‘But was there another with a barred tail?’ I asked, ‘the same as the one I chose?’

“ ‘Yes, Jem; there were two barred-tailed ones, and I could never tell them apart.’

“Well, then, of course I saw it all, and I ran off as fast as I could to this man Breckinridge;

but he had sold the lot at once, and he would not tell me where they had gone.

You heard him yourselves tonight.

Well, he has always answered me like that.

My sister thinks that I am going mad.

Sometimes I think that I am myself.

And now—and now I am a known thief, without ever having touched the wealth for which I sold my character.

God help me! God help me!” He burst into convulsive (抽搐的) sobbing, with his face buried in his hands.

There was a long silence, broken only by his heavy breathing and the regular tapping of Sherlock Holmes’s finger-tips upon the edge of the table.

Then my friend rose and threw open the door.

“Get out!” said he.

“What, sir! Oh, Heaven bless you!”

“No more words. Get out!”

And no more words were needed.

There was a rush, rapid footsteps down the stairs, the bang of a door, and the crisp sound of running footsteps in the snow, coming from the street.

“After all, Watson,” said Holmes, reaching for his pipe, “I am not responsible for doing the police’s job for them.

If Horner were in danger it would be different; but this fellow will not give evidence against him, and the case must collapse.

I suppose I am helping a criminal, but it is just possible that I am saving a soul.

This fellow will not go wrong again; he is too terribly frightened.

Send him to jail now, and you make him a criminal for life.

Besides, it is the season of forgiveness.

Good luck has sent us a most unusual and fascinating problem, and its solution is its own reward.

If you will ring the bell, Doctor, we will begin another investigation, in which, also a bird will be the chief feature.”