Chapter 22
==============
“Holmes,” said I as I stood one morning at the window looking down the street, “here is a madman coming along.

It seems rather sad that his relatives should allow him to come out alone.”

My friend rose lazily from his armchair and stood with his hands in the pockets of his dressing-gown, looking over my shoulder.

It was a bright, cold February morning, and the snow of the day before still lay deep upon the ground, shining brightly in the winter sun.

Down the centre of Baker Street it had turned brown because of the traffic, but at either side it still lay as white as when it fell.

The pavement had been cleaned and scraped, but was still dangerously slippery, so that there were fewer passers-by than usual.

At that moment the only person in the street was the man whose odd behaviour I had noticed.

He was a man of about fifty, tall, with a strongly marked face and a commanding figure.

He was dressed in a sombre (阴沉的) yet rich style, in a black coat, fashionable business hat, and well-made grey trousers.

Yet his actions were in absurd contrast to the dignity of his dress and features, for he was running hard, with occasional little jumps.

As he ran he jerked his hands up and down, and twisted his face into the most extraordinary contortions.

“What on earth can be the matter with him?” I asked.

“He is looking up at the numbers of the houses.”


“I believe that he is coming here,” said Holmes, rubbing his hands.

“Here?”

“Yes; I rather think he is coming to consult me professionally.

I think that I recognize the symptoms.”

As he spoke, the man, puffing and blowing, rushed at our door and loudly rang the bell.

A few moments later he was in our room, still puffing,

but with so fixed a look of grief (悲痛) and despair in his eyes that our smiles were turned in an instant to horror and pity.

For a while he could not get his words out, but swayed and pulled at his hair like one who has been driven to the extreme limits of his reason.

Then, suddenly springing to his feet,

he beat his head against the wall with such force that we both rushed upon him and pulled him away to the centre of the room.

Sherlock Holmes pushed him down into the armchair and, sitting beside him, patted his hand and chatted with him in the easy, calming tones which he knew so well how to use.

“You have come to me to tell your story, have you not?” said he.

“You are tired from rushing here.

Please wait until you have recovered, and then I shall be most happy to look into any problem which you may have for me.”

The man sat for a minute or more with a heaving chest, fighting against his emotion.

Then he wiped his handkerchief over his forehead, set his lips tight, and turned his face towards us.

“No doubt you think me mad?” said he.

“I see that you have had some great trouble,” responded Holmes.

“I have had a sudden and terrible trouble which is enough to drive me mad.

Public disgrace (耻辱) I might have faced, although up to now I have always been thought a man of excellent character.

Private sorrow also comes to us all; but the two coming together, and in so frightful a form, have been enough to shake my very soul.

Besides, it is not I alone.

The very noblest in the land may suffer unless some way is found out of this horrible affair.”

“Please calm yourself, sir,” said Holmes, “and tell me who you are and what has happened to you.”

“My name,” answered our visitor, “is probably familiar to you.

I am Alexander Holder, of the banking firm of Holder & Stevenson, of Threadneedle Street.”

The name was indeed well known to us.

It belonged to the senior partner in the second largest private bank in the City of London.

What could have happened, then, to bring one of the foremost citizens of London to this most pitiable (可怜的) situation?

We waited, burning with curiosity, until with another effort he started to tell his story.

“I feel that time is of value,” said he, “that is why I hurried here when the police inspector suggested that I should ask for your help.

I came to Baker Street by the Underground and hurried from there on foot, for the cabs go slowly through this snow.

That is why I was so out of breath, for I am a man who takes very little exercise.

I feel better now, and I will put the facts before you as shortly and yet as clearly as I can.

“As I am sure you know,

successful banking business depends as much on being able to find profitable investments for our money as upon increasing the number of our customers.

One of our most profitable means of investing money is to lend it in exchange for reliable security.

We have done a good deal in this direction during the last few years,

and there are many noble families to whom we have lent large amounts of money in return for the security of their pictures,

libraries, or valuable household items made of gold or silver.

“Yesterday morning I was seated in my office at the bank when a card was brought in to me by one of the clerks.

I was astonished when I saw the name, for it was one of the highest, noblest names in England.

I was overwhelmed by the honour and attempted, when he entered, to say so,

but he at once got down to business with the air of a man who wishes to hurry quickly through a disagreeable task.