Chapter 26
==================
Sherlock Holmes sat silent for a few minutes in intense concentration, with his eyes fixed upon the fire.

“Do you receive many guests?” he asked.

“Only my partner and his family and an occasional friend of Arthur’s. Sir George Burnwell has been several times lately.

No one else, I think.”

“Do you go out much?”

“Arthur does. Mary and I stay at home.

We neither of us care for it.”

“That is unusual in a young girl.”

“She is of a quiet nature.

Besides, she is not so very young.

She is already twenty-four.”

“This matter, from what you say, seems to have been a shock to her also.”

“Terrible! She is even more affected than I.”

“Neither of you has any doubt about your son’s guilt?”

“How can we have when I saw him with my own eyes with the coronet (王冠) in his hands?”

“I hardly consider that a conclusive (确定的) proof. Was the rest of the coronet (王冠) at all injured?”

“Yes, it was twisted.”

“Do you not think, then, that he might have been trying to straighten it?”

“God bless you!

You are doing what you can for him and for me.

But it is too heavy a task.

What was he doing there at all? If his purpose was innocent, why did he not say so?”

“And if it were guilty, why did he not invent a lie?

His silence appears to me to cut both ways.

There are several unusual points about the case.

What did the police think of the noise which awoke you from your sleep?”

“They thought it might be caused by Arthur’s closing his bedroom door.”

“A likely story!

Would a man planning a crime slam his door so as to wake the household?

What did they say, then, about the disappearance of these jewels?”

“They are looking underneath the wooden floor-boards in the hope of finding them.”

“Have they thought of looking outside the house?”

“Yes, they have shown extraordinary energy.

The whole garden has already been carefully searched.”

“Now, my dear sir,” said Holmes, “this appeared to you to be a simple case; to me it seems exceedingly complex.

According to your theory, your son went,

at great risk, to your dressing-room, opened your desk, took out your coronet (王冠) , broke off by force a small part of it, went off to some other place,

hid three jewels out of the thirty-nine with such skill that nobody can find them,

and then returned with the other thirty-six into the room in which he would be in terrible danger if he were discovered.

I ask you, does such a theory make sense?”

“But what other is there?” cried the banker with a gesture of despair.

“If his motives were innocent, why does he not explain them?”

“It is our task to find that out,” replied Holmes,

“so now, if you please, Mr. Holder, we will set off for Streatham together, and spend an hour in looking a little more closely into details.”

My friend insisted upon my accompanying them in their expedition,

which I was eager enough to do, for my curiosity and sympathy were deeply stirred by the story to which we had listened.

I confess that the guilt of the banker’s son appeared to me to be as obvious as it did to his unhappy father,

but still I had such faith in Holmes’s judgment that I felt that there must be reasons for hope if he was dissatisfied with the accepted explanation.

He hardly spoke a word the whole way out to the southern suburb,

but sat with his chin upon his breast and his hat drawn over his eyes, sunk in the deepest thought.

Our client appeared to have taken fresh heart at the little glimpse of hope which had been presented to him,

and he even talked with me a little about his business affairs.

A short railway journey and a shorter walk brought us to Fairbank, the famous banker’s house.

Fairbank was a large square house of white stone, some distance from the road.

A private road, with a snowy lawn, led to two large iron gates.

On the right side was a narrow path leading from the road to the kitchen door, which was the tradesmen’s entrance.

On the left ran a lane which led to the stables.

Holmes left us standing at the door and walked slowly all around the house, across the front,

down the tradesmen’s path, and so round by the garden behind into the stable lane.

He took so long that Mr. Holder and I went into the dining-room and waited by the fire until he should return.

We were sitting there in silence when the door opened and a young lady came in.

She was rather above average height, slim, with dark hair and eyes, which seemed the darker against the absolute whiteness of her skin.

I do not think that I have ever seen such deadly paleness in a woman’s face.

Her lips, too, were bloodless, but her eyes were red with crying.

As she swept silently into the room she impressed me with a greater sense of grief (悲痛) than the banker had done in the morning,

and it was the more striking in her as she was evidently a woman of strong character, with immense capacity for self-restraint.

Disregarding my presence, she went straight to her uncle and passed her hand over his head with a sweet womanly caress (拥抱) .


“You have given orders that Arthur should be freed, have you not, dad?” she asked.

“No, no, my girl, the matter must be probed to the bottom.”

“But I am so sure that he is innocent.

You know what woman’s instincts are.

I know that he has done no harm, and that you will be sorry for having acted so harshly.”

“Why is he silent, then, if he is innocent?”

“Who knows? Perhaps because he was so angry that you should suspect him.”

“How could I help suspecting him, when I actually saw him with the coronet (王冠) in his hand?”

“Oh, but he had only picked it up to look at it.

Oh, do, do take my word for it that he is innocent.

Let the matter drop and say no more. It is so dreadful to think of our dear Arthur in prison!”

“I shall never let it drop until the jewels are found—never, Mary!

Your affection for Arthur blinds you as to the awful consequences to me.

Far from hushing the thing up, I have brought a gentleman down from London to inquire more deeply into it.”