Chapter 30
================
“There was a double line of tracks of a booted man, and a second double line which I saw with delight belonged to a man with naked feet.

I understood at once from what you had told me that the latter was your son.

The first had walked both ways, but the other had run swiftly,

and as his footprints in some places overlay (在表面上铺一薄层) the prints of the boot, it was obvious that he had gone after the other.

I followed them up and found they led to the hall window, where Boots had worn all the snow away while waiting.

Then I walked to the other end, which was a hundred yards or more down the lane.

I saw where Boots had turned round, where the snow was cut up as though there had been a struggle,

and, finally, where a few drops of blood had fallen, to show me that I was not mistaken.

Boots had then run down the lane, and another little stain of blood showed that it was he who had been hurt.

When he came to the main road at the other end, I found that the pavement had been cleared, so there was an end to that clue.

“On entering the house, you may remember that I examined the hall window with my lens, and I could at once see that someone had passed out.

I could distinguish the outline of a naked foot where the wet foot had been placed in coming in.

I started to understand what had occurred.

A man had waited outside the window; someone had brought the jewels; the deed had been observed by your son.

He had chased the thief, and had struggled with him.

They had each pulled at the coronet (王冠) , their united strength causing damage which neither alone could have caused.

He had returned with the prize, but had left a fragment in the grasp of his opponent.

So far I was clear.

The question now was, who was the thief, and who brought him the coronet (王冠) ?

“It is a principle of mine that when you have excluded the impossible, whatever remains, however improbable, must be the truth.

Now, I knew that it was not you who had brought it down, so there only remained your niece and the maids.

But if it were the maids, why should your son allow himself to be accused in their place?

There could be no possible reason.

As he loved his cousin, however, there was an excellent explanation why he should keep her secret—especially as the secret was a disgraceful (可耻的) one.

When I remembered that you had seen her at that window, and how she had fainted on seeing the coronet (王冠) again, my theory became a certainty.

“And who could the thief be?

A lover evidently, for who else could outweigh (比…重要) the love and gratitude which she must feel to you?

I knew that you went out little, and that your circle of friends was a very limited one.

But among them was Sir George Burnwell.

I had heard of him before as being a man of evil reputation among women.

It must have been he who wore those boots and still had the missing jewels.

Even though he knew that Arthur had discovered him, he might still believe that he was safe, for Arthur could not say a word without compromising his own family.

“Well, I think you can guess what I did next.

I went, dressed as a tramp, to Sir George’s house, got to know his servant, learned that his master had cut his head the night before,

and, finally, at the expense of six shillings, bought a pair of his old shoes.

With these I came back to Streatham and saw that they exactly fitted the tracks.”

“I saw an ill-dressed tramp in the lane yesterday evening,” said Mr. Holder.

“Precisely. It was I.

I found that I had my man, so I came home and changed my clothes.

It was a delicate part which I had to play then, for I saw that a prosecution must be avoided to avoid scandal,

and I knew that so clever a villain (坏人) would see that our hands were tied in the matter.

I went and saw him.

At first, of course, he denied everything.

But when I told him exactly what had happened, he took down a club from the wall and threatened me.

I knew my man, however, and I put a pistol to his head before he could strike.

Then he became a little more reasonable.

I told him that we would give him a price for the stones he held—one thousand pounds each.

That brought out the first signs of grief (悲痛) that he had shown.

‘Oh, no!’ said he, ‘I’ve sold the three of them, all together, for only six hundred pounds!’

I soon managed to get the address of the receiver who had them, on promising him that there would be no prosecution.

Off I went to him, and after much bargaining I got our stones at a thousand pounds each.

Then I visited your son, told him that everything was right, and finally got to my bed about two o’clock, after a really hard day’s work.”

“A day which has saved England from a great public scandal,” said the banker, rising.

“Sir, I cannot find words to thank you, but you shall not find me ungrateful for what you have done.

Your skill is even greater than I had heard.

And now I must run to my dear son to apologize to him for the wrong which I have done him.

As to what you tell me of poor Mary, it goes to my very heart.

Not even your skill can inform me where she is now.”

“I think that we may safely say,” returned Holmes, “that she is wherever Sir George Burnwell is.

It is equally certain, too, that whatever her sins are, they will soon receive a more than sufficient punishment.”
