Chapter 24
================
“It was naturally my intention that he should succeed me in my business, but he was not interested in business.

He was wild, wayward (任性的) , and, to speak the truth, I could not trust him to handle large sums (总数) of money.

When he was young he became a member of an aristocratic (贵族的) club,

and there, having charming manners, he was soon friendly with a number of rich men with expensive habits.

He started to bet large sums (总数) of money on card games and on horse races,

and came again and again to beg me to give him an advance upon his allowance, so that he might repay his gambling debts.

He tried more than once to break away from the dangerous company which he was keeping,

but each time the influence of his friend, Sir George Burnwell, was enough to draw him back again.

“And, indeed, I could not wonder that such a man as Sir George Burnwell should gain an influence over him,

for he has often brought him to my house, and I have found myself that I could hardly resist the fascination of his manner.

He is older than Arthur, one who had been everywhere and seen everything, a brilliant talker, and an extremely handsome man.

Yet when I think of him in cold blood, far away from the glamour of his presence,

I am convinced from his cynical speech and the look which I have caught in his eyes that he is one who should be deeply distrusted.

So I think, and so, too, thinks my little Mary, who has a woman’s quick insight into character.

“And now let me finish by describing Mary.

She is my niece; but when my brother died five years ago and left her alone in the world I adopted her, and have looked upon her ever since as my daughter.

She is a sunbeam (阳光) in my house—sweet, loving, beautiful, a wonderful manager and housekeeper, yet as tender and quiet and gentle as a woman could be.

She is my right hand.

I do not know what I would do without her.

In only one matter has she ever gone against my wishes.

Twice my son has asked her to marry him, for he loves her devotedly, but each time she has refused him.

I think that if anyone could have drawn him into the right path it would have been her, and that his marriage might have changed his whole life;

but now, alas! It is too late—forever too late!

“Now, Mr. Holmes, you know the people who live under my roof, and I shall continue with my miserable story.

“When we were taking coffee that night after dinner, I told Arthur and Mary of my experience,

and of the precious treasure which we had under our roof, without of course mentioning the name of my client.

Lucy Parr, who had brought in the coffee, had, I am sure, left the room; but I cannot swear that the door was closed.

Mary and Arthur were very interested and wished to see the famous coronet (王冠) , but I thought it better not to disturb it.

“ ‘Where have you put it?’ asked Arthur.

“ ‘In my own desk.’

“ ‘Well, I hope the house won’t be burgled during the night.’ said he.

“ ‘It is locked up,’ I answered.

“ ‘Oh, any old key will fit that desk.

When I was a young I used to open it myself with the key of the store-room cupboard.’

“He often had a wild way of talking, so that I thought little of what he said.

He followed me to my room, however, that night with a very serious face.

“ ‘Dad,’ said he with his eyes looking down, ‘can you let me have 200 pounds?’

“ ‘No, I cannot!’ I answered sharply.

‘I have been far too generous with you in money matters.’

“ ‘You have been very kind,’ said he, ‘but I must have this money, or else I can never show my face inside the club again.’

“ ‘And a very good thing, too!’ I cried.

“ ‘Yes, but you would not have me leave it a dishonoured man,’ said he.

‘I could not bear the disgrace (耻辱) .

I must raise the money in some way, and if you will not let me have it, then I must try other means.’

“I was very angry, for this was the third demand that month.

‘You shall not have a farthing (一点儿) from me,’ I cried, after which he left the room without another word.

“When he was gone I unlocked my desk, made sure that my treasure was safe, and locked it again.

Then I started to go round the house to see that all was secure—

a duty which I usually leave to Mary but which I thought it best to perform myself that night.

As I came down the stairs I saw Mary herself at the side window of the hall, which she closed and fastened as I approached.

“ ‘Tell me, dad,’ said she, looking, I thought, a little disturbed, ‘did you give Lucy, the maid, permission to go out tonight?’

“ ‘Certainly not.’

“ ‘She came in just now by the back door.

I have no doubt that she has only been to the side gate to see someone, but I think that it is hardly safe and should be stopped.’

“ ‘You must speak to her in the morning, or I will if you prefer it.

Are you sure that everything is fastened?’

“ ‘Quite sure, dad.’

“ ‘Then, good night.’

I kissed her and went up to my bedroom again, where I was soon asleep.

“I am trying to tell you everything, Mr. Holmes, which may be relevant to the case, but please question me upon any point which I do not make clear.”

“Your statement so far has been very clear.”