Chapter 28
===============
It was obvious to me that my companion’s mind was now made up about the case, although I could not even dimly imagine what his conclusions were.

Several times during our journey home I tried to ask him, but he always glided away to some other topic, until at last I gave it up in despair.

It was not yet three when we found ourselves in our rooms once more.

He hurried to his bedroom, and was down again in a few minutes dressed as a common tramp.

With his collar turned up, his shiny old coat, his red scarf, and his worn boots, he was a perfect sample of the class.

“I think that this should do,” said he, looking into the mirror above the fireplace.

“l only wish that you could come with me, Watson, but I fear that it won’t do.

I may be on the trail in this matter, or I may be following a false clue, but I shall soon know which it is.

I hope to be back in a few hours.”

He cut a slice of beef from the piece on the table, sandwiched it between two slices of bread, and putting this simple meal into his pocket,

he started off upon his expedition.

I had just finished my tea when he returned, evidently in excellent spirits, swinging an old elastic-sided boot in his hand.

He threw it down into a corner and poured himself a cup of tea.

“I only looked in as I passed,” said he. “I am going right on.”

“Where to?”

“Oh, to the other side of the West End.

It may be some time before I get back. Don’t wait up for me if I am late.”

“How are you doing?”

“Oh, so so.

Nothing to complain of.

I have been out to Streatham since I saw you last, but I did not call at the house.

It is a very sweet little problem, and I would not have missed it for a good deal.

However, I must not sit gossiping here, but must get these disreputable (破旧不堪的) clothes off and return to my highly respectable self.”

I could see by his manner that he had stronger reasons for satisfaction than his words alone would imply.

His eyes twinkled, and there was even a touch of colour upon his cheeks.

He hastened upstairs, and a few minutes later I heard the slam of the hall door, which told me that he was off once more upon his exciting hunt.

I waited until midnight, but there was no sign of his return, so I went to bed.

He was often away for days and nights on end when he was hot upon a scent, so that his lateness caused me no surprise.

I do not know when he came in,

but when I came down to breakfast in the morning there he was with a cup of coffee in one hand and the paper in the other,

as fresh and clean as possible.

“You will excuse my beginning without you, Watson,” said he, “but you remember that our client has rather an early appointment this morning.”

“Oh, it is after nine now,” I answered.

“I should not be surprised if that were he. I thought I heard a ring.”

It was, indeed, our friend the banker.

I was shocked by the change which had come over him—his hair seemed to me at least a shade whiter.

He entered with a slowness and tiredness which were even more painful than his violence of the morning before,

and he dropped heavily into the armchair which I pushed forward for him.

“I do not know what I have done to deserve this,” said he.

“Only two days ago I was a happy and prosperous man, without a care in the world.

Now I am left to a lonely and dishonoured age.

One sorrow comes close upon the heels of another.

My niece, Mary, has deserted me.”

“Deserted you?”

“Yes. Her bed this morning had not been slept in, her room was empty, and a note for me lay upon the hall table.

I had said to her last night, in sorrow and not in anger, that if she had married my boy all might have been well with him.

Perhaps it was thoughtless of me to say so. It is to that remark that she refers in this note:

“My dearest Uncle:

“I feel that I have brought trouble upon you, and that if I had acted differently this terrible misfortune might never have occurred.

I cannot, with this thought in my mind, ever again be happy under your roof, and I feel that I must leave you forever.

Do not worry about my future, for that is provided for; and, above all, do not search for me, for you will never find me.

In life or in death, I am ever,

“Your loving

“MARY.

“What could she mean by that note, Mr. Holmes? Do you think it points to suicide?”

“No, no, nothing of the kind.

It is perhaps the best possible solution.

I trust, Mr. Holder, that you are nearing the end of your troubles.”

“You have heard something, Mr. Holmes; you have learned something! Where are the jewels?”

“You would not think 1,000 pounds each an excessive sum (金额) for them?”

“I would pay ten.”

“That would be unnecessary.

Three thousand will cover the matter. And there is a reward, I think.

Have you your cheque-book? Here is a pen. Better make it out for 4,000 pounds.”

With a dazed (茫然的) face the banker wrote out the required cheque.

Holmes walked over to his desk, took out a little triangular piece of gold with three jewels in it, and threw it down upon the table.
