Chapter 1
================
I had called upon my friend, Mr. Sherlock Holmes, one day in the autumn of last year,

and found him in deep conversation with a red-faced, elderly gentleman with fiery (火红的) red hair.

I was about to leave when Holmes pulled me into the room and closed the door behind me.

“You could not possibly have come at a better time, my dear Watson,” he said, obviously very happy to see me.

“I was afraid that you were busy.”

“So I am. Very much so.”

“Then I can wait in the next room.”

“Not at all. Mr. Wilson, Doctor Watson here has been my partner and helper in many of my most successful cases.”

The gentleman half rose from his chair to greet me.

“I know, my dear Watson, that you share my love of all that is outside the normal routine of everyday life.

You have shown your relish for it by the enthusiasm which has prompted you to write down and,

if I may say so, somewhat to embellish (修饰) so many of my own little adventures.”

“Your cases have indeed been of the greatest interest to me,” I replied.

“You will remember my saying the other day, that for strange effects and extraordinary events,

we must go to life itself, which is always far more daring than any effort of the imagination.”

“I remember being brave enough to express some doubts.”

“You did, Doctor, but I shall keep on finding more and more examples until you finally agree that I am right.

Now, Mr. Jabez Wilson here has begun a narrative (叙述) which promises to be one of the most unusual that I have listened to for some time.

You have heard me remark that the strangest examples are very often connected not with the larger but with the smaller crimes,

and occasionally occur in cases where there is room for doubt as to whether there has been a crime at all.

As far as I have heard, it is impossible for me to say whether the present case is an example of crime or not,

but the facts are certainly among the most unusual that I have ever listened to.

Perhaps, Mr. Wilson, you would have the great kindness to start your narrative (叙述) again from the beginning.

I ask you not only because my friend Dr. Watson has not heard the opening part,

but also because the highly unusual nature of the story makes me eager to have every possible detail from your lips.

Mostly, when I have been given some slight idea,

I am able to guide myself by the thousands of other similar cases I remember.

In this case I am forced to admit that the facts are, to the best of my belief, unique.”

The client puffed out his chest with an appearance of some pride and pulled a dirty and wrinkled newspaper from the inside pocket of his coat.

As he looked down the advertisement column, with the paper flattened out upon his knee,

I took a good look at the man and tried, as my companion would,

to read the clues which might be presented by his clothes or appearance.

I did not learn very much. Our visitor was simply a rather normal middle-aged man.

He wore gray trousers, a somewhat dirty coat, unbuttoned in the front,

and a waistcoat (背心) with a square metal ornament hanging on a chain.

An old hat lay upon a chair beside him.

There was nothing remarkable about the man except his blazing red hair, and the fact that he was obviously upset.

Sherlock Holmes quickly noticed what I was doing, and he shook his head with a smile.

“Beyond the obvious facts that he has at some time done manual labor,

that he is a Freemason, that he has been in China, and that he has done a lot of writing lately, I can deduce nothing else.”

Mr. Jabez Wilson started up in his chair, with his forefinger upon the paper, but his eyes upon my companion.


“How could you possibly know all that, Mr. Holmes?” he asked.

“How did you know, for example, that I did manual labor? It’s true—I began as a ship’s carpenter.”

“Your hands, my dear sir. Your right hand is much larger than your left.

You have worked with it, and the muscles are more developed.”

“Well then, what about Freemasonry?”

“I won’t insult your intelligence by telling you how I read that, especially as,

rather against the strict rules of your organization, you use an arc-and-compass breastpin (胸针) .”

“Ah, of course, I forgot that. But the writing?”

“What else can be indicated by that right cuff (袖口) so very shiny for five inches,

and the left one with the smooth area near the elbow where you rest it upon the desk?”

“And China?”

“The fish that you have tattooed immediately above your right wrist could only have been done in China.

I have made a small study of tattoo (纹身) marks and have even contributed to the literature of the subject.

That method of staining the fishes’ scales a delicate pink is unique to China.

When, in addition, I see a Chinese coin hanging from your watch-chain, the matter becomes even simpler.”

Mr. Jabez Wilson laughed heavily. “Well!” he said.

“I thought at first that you had done something clever, but I see that there was nothing in it, after all.”

“I begin to think, Watson,” said Holmes, “that I make a mistake in explaining.

‘Only the unknown is surprising,’ you know, and my poor little reputation will not survive if I am so honest.

Have you found the advertisement, Mr. Wilson?”

“Yes, here it is,” he answered pointing at the paper. “ This is what began it all. You just read it for yourself, sir.”

I took the paper from him and read as follows.

TO THE RED-HEADED LEAGUE:On account of the will of the late Ezekiah Hopkins, of Lebanon, Pennsylvania, U. S. A.,

there is now another place open which entitles a member of the League to a salary of 4 pounds a week for easy, part-time work.

All red-headed men who are healthy in body and mind, and above the age of twenty-one years, will be considered.

Apply in person on Monday, at eleven o’clock, to Duncan Ross, at the offices of the League, 7 Pope’s Court, Fleet Street.

“What on earth does this mean?” I exclaimed after I had twice read over the extraordinary announcement.

Holmes laughed happily. “It is a little out of the ordinary, isn’t it?” said he.

“And now, Mr. Wilson, please tell us all about yourself, your household, and the effect which this advertisement had upon your fortunes.

You will first make a note, Doctor, of the paper and the date.”

“It is The Morning Chronicle of April 27, 1890. Just two months ago.”

“Very good. Now, Mr. Wilson?”

“Well, it is just as I have been telling you, Mr. Sherlock Holmes,” said Jabez Wilson,

wiping his forehead; “I have a small pawnbroker (当铺) ’s business at Coburg Square, near the City.

It’s not a very large one, and in the last few years it has not done more than just give me a living.

I used to be able to keep two assistants, but now I only keep one,

and I can only pay him because he is willing to work for half wages to learn the business.”

“What is the name of this young man?” asked Sherlock Holmes.

“His name is Vincent Spaulding, and he’s not so young, either. It’s hard to say his age.

I should not wish a better assistant, Mr. Holmes;

and I know that if he worked hard, he could earn twice what I am able to give him.

But, after all, if he is satisfied, why should I put ideas in his head?”

“Why, indeed? You seem most fortunate in having an employee who will take less than the full market price.

It is not a common experience among employers. Your assistant sounds as remarkable as your advertisement.”

“Oh, he has his faults, too,” said Mr. Wilson.

“He is always taking photographs when he ought to be improving his mind,

and then diving down into the cellar like a rabbit into its hole to develop his pictures.

That is his main fault, but on the whole he’s a good worker.”

“He is still with you?”

“Yes, sir. He and a girl of fourteen, who does a bit of simple cooking and keeps the place clean – that’s all I have in the house,

for my wife has died and we never had any children.

We live very quietly, sir, the three of us; and we keep a roof over our heads and pay our debts, if we do nothing more.

“The first thing was that advertisement. Spaulding came down into the office just eight weeks ago, with this paper in his hand, and he says:

“ ‘I wish, Mr. Wilson, that I was a red-headed man.’

“ ‘Why?’ I ask.

“ ‘Well,’ says he, ‘here’s another place open with the League of the Red-headed Men.

It’s worth a lot of money to any man who gets it, and I understand that there are more places than there are men.

If my hair would only change colour, here’s a nice little job all ready for me to step into.’

“ ‘What is it, then?’ I asked. You see. Mr. Holmes, I am a very stay-at-home man,

and as my business comes to me instead of my having to go to it, I often don’t go outside for weeks.

So I did not know much of what was going on outside, and I was always glad of a bit of news.

“ ‘Have you never heard of the League of the Red-headed Men?’ he asked.

“ ‘Never.’

“ ‘Well, I am surprised, since I think you could easily get a place with them.’

“ ‘And what would a place be worth?’ I asked.


“ ‘Oh, only a couple of hundred pounds a year, but the work is slight, and it need not interfere very much with one’s other business.’

“Well, that made me think, for the business has not been very good for some years,

and an extra couple of hundred pounds would have been very useful.

“ ‘Tell me all about it,’ said I.