Chapter 29
===============
With a shriek of joy our client clutched it up.

“You have it!” he gasped. “I am saved! I am saved!”

The reaction of joy was as passionate as his grief (悲痛) had been, and he hugged his recovered jewels to his heart.

“There is one other thing you owe, Mr. Holder,” said Sherlock Holmes rather sternly.

“Owe!” He caught up a pen. “Name the sum (总额) , and I will pay it.”

“No, the debt is not to me.

You owe a very humble apology to that noble man, your son,

who has behaved in this matter as I should be proud to see my own son do, should I ever have one.”

“Then it was not Arthur who took them?”

“I told you yesterday, and I repeat today, that it was not.”

“Then explain this extraordinary mystery to me, then!”

“I will do so, and I will show you the steps by which I reached it.

And let me say to you, first, that which it is hardest for me to say and for you to hear:

there has been an understanding between Sir George Burnwell and your niece Mary. They have now run away together.”

“My Mary? Impossible!”

“It is unfortunately more than possible; it is certain.

Neither you nor your son knew the true character of this man when you admitted him into your family circle.

He is one of the most dangerous men in England—a ruined gambler, an absolutely desperate villain (坏人) , a man without heart or conscience.

Your niece knew nothing of such men.

When he made his promises to her, as he had done to a hundred before her, she flattered (高兴的) herself that she alone had touched his heart.

The devil (魔鬼) knows best what he said, but at least she became his tool and was in the habit of seeing him nearly every evening.”

“I cannot, and I will not, believe it!” cried the banker; his face had turned gray.

“I will tell you, then, what happened in your house last night.

Your niece, when you had, as she thought, gone to your room, slipped down and talked to her lover through the window which leads into the stable lane.

His footmarks had pressed right through the snow, so long had he stood there.

She told him of the coronet (王冠) .

His wicked desire for gold was awakened by the news, and he bent her to his will.

I have no doubt that she loved you, but there are women in whom the love of a lover extinguishes all other loves, and I think that she must have been one.

She had hardly listened to his instructions when she saw you coming downstairs,

on which she closed the window rapidly and told you about one of the servants’ visit with her wooden-legged lover, which was all perfectly true.

“Your boy, Arthur, went to bed after his talk with you, but he slept badly because of his worries about his club debts.

In the middle of the night he heard soft footsteps pass his door, so he rose and, looking out,

was surprised to see his cousin walking very stealthily (暗地里) along the passage until she disappeared into your dressing-room.

Astonished, he slipped on some clothes and waited there in the dark to see what would come of this strange affair.

Presently she came out of the room again, and in the light of the lamp your son saw that she carried the precious coronet (王冠) in her hands.

She went down the stairs, and he, horrified (可怕的) , ran along and hid behind the curtain near your door, from where he could see what happened in the hall beneath.

He saw her stealthily (暗地里) open the window, hand out the coronet (王冠) to someone in the darkness,

and then close it once more and hurry back to her room, passing quite close to where he stood hidden behind the curtain.

“While she was there, he could not take any action without a horrible exposure of the woman he loved.

But the instant that she was gone he realized how crushing a misfortune this would be for you, and how all-important it was to set it right.

He rushed down, just as he was, in his bare feet, opened the window, sprang out into the snow,

and ran down the lane, where he could see a dark figure in the moonlight.

Sir George Burnwell tried to get away, but Arthur caught him.

There was a struggle between them, your son pulling at one side of the coronet (王冠) , and his opponent at the other.

In the struggle, your son struck Sir George and cut him over the eye.

Then something suddenly snapped, and your son, finding that he had the coronet (王冠) in his hands, rushed back, closed the window, and went up to your room.

He had just noticed that the coronet (王冠) had been twisted in the struggle, and was trying to straighten it, when you appeared upon the scene.”


“Is it possible?” gasped the banker.

“You then angered him by insulting him at a moment when he felt that he had deserved your warmest thanks.

He could not explain the true state of affairs without betraying Mary, whose secret he chivalrously (侠义地) kept, even though she had done nothing to deserve it.”

“And that was why she shrieked and fainted when she saw the coronet (王冠) ,” cried Mr. Holder.

“Oh, what a blind fool I have been! And his asking to be allowed to go out for five minutes!

The dear fellow wanted to see if the missing piece were at the scene of the struggle.

How cruelly I have misjudged him!”

“When I arrived at the house,” continued Holmes, “I first went very carefully round it to observe if there were any traces (痕迹) in the snow which might help me.

I knew that none had fallen since the previous evening, and also that there had been a strong frost to preserve impressions.

I passed along the tradesmen’s path, but found it all trampled down and indistinguishable (无法辨别的) .

Just beyond it, however, at the far side of the kitchen door, a woman had stood and talked with a man,

whose round impressions on one side showed that he had a wooden leg.

I could even tell that they had been disturbed, for the woman had run back swiftly to the door, as was shown by the deep toe and light heel marks,

while Wooden-leg had waited a little, and then had gone away.

This was clearly the maid and her sweetheart, of whom you had already spoken to me.

I passed round the garden without seeing anything more than random tracks, which I took to be the police;

but when I got into the stable lane a very long and complex story was written in the snow in front of me.