Chapter 23
=================
“ ‘Mr. Holder,’ said he, ‘I have been told that you are in the habit of lending money.’

“ ‘The firm does so when the security is good.’ I answered.

“ ‘It is absolutely essential to me,’ said he, ‘that I have 50,000 pounds at once.

I could, of course, borrow so small a sum (金额) ten times over from my friends,

but I much prefer to make it a matter of business and to carry out that business myself.

In my position you can readily understand that it is unwise to place oneself under obligations.’

“ ‘For how long, may I ask, do you want this sum (金额) ?’ I asked.

“ ‘Next Monday I have a large sum (金额) due to me,

and I shall then most certainly repay what I have borrowed, with whatever interest you think it right to charge.

But it is essential to me that the money should be paid at once.’

“ ‘I would be happy to lend you the money personally, without further discussion’ I said, ‘but I am afraid my personal situation does not permit it.

If, on the other hand, I am to do it in the name of the firm,

then in fairness to my partner I must insist that, even in your case, every businesslike precaution should be taken.’

“ ‘I should much prefer to have it so,’ said he, raising up a square, black leather case which he had put down beside his chair.

‘You must have heard of the Beryl Coronet (绿玉皇冠) ?’

“ ‘One of the most precious public possessions of the empire,’ said I.

“ ‘Precisely.’ He opened the case, and there, lying in soft, flesh-coloured velvet, was the magnificent piece of jewellery which he had named.

‘There are thirty-nine enormous beryls,’ said he, ‘not to mention the value of the gold itself.

The coronet (王冠) is worth at least double the sum (金额) which I have asked.

I am prepared to leave it with you as my security.’


“I took the precious case into my hands and looked, somewhat puzzled, from it to my distinguished client.

“ ‘You doubt its value?’ he asked.

“ ‘Not at all. I only doubt—’

“ ‘Whether it is proper for me to leave it with you? You may set your mind at rest about that.

I would not dream of doing so if I were not absolutely certain that I should be able to reclaim it in four days.

Is the security sufficient?’

“ ‘Ample.’

“ ‘You understand, Mr. Holder, that I rely upon you not only to be discreet and not to discuss the matter but, above all,

to preserve this coronet (王冠) with every possible precaution, because I need not say that a great public scandal would be caused if any harm were to come to it.

Any damage to it would be almost as serious as its complete loss,

for there are no beryls in the world to match these, and it would be impossible to replace them.

I leave it with you, however, with every confidence, and I shall call for it in person on Monday morning.’

“Seeing that my client was anxious to leave, I said no more; but, calling for my cashier, I ordered him to pay over fifty 1000 pound notes.

When I was alone once more, however, with the precious case lying upon the table in front of me,

I could not but think with some misgivings of the immense responsibility which it entailed upon me.

There could be no doubt that, as it was a national possession, a horrible scandal would follow if any misfortune should occur to it.

I already regretted having ever agreed to be responsible for it.

However, it was too late now, so I locked it up in my private safe and turned once more to my work.

“When evening came I felt that it would be unwise to leave so precious a thing in the office behind me.

Bankers’ safes had been forced before now: why not mine?

If so, how terrible would be the position in which I should find myself!

I decided, therefore, that for the next few days I would always carry the case backward and forward with me,

so that it might never be out of my reach. With this intention, I called a cab and drove out to my house at Streatham, carrying the coronet (王冠) with me.

I did not breathe freely until I had taken it upstairs and locked it in the desk of my dressing-room.

“And now a word about my household, Mr. Holmes, for I wish you to thoroughly understand the situation.

I have three maid-servants who have been with me a number of years and whose absolute reliability is quite above suspicion.

Another maid-servant, Lucy Parr, has only been in my service a few months.

She came with an excellent reference, however, and has always given me satisfaction.

She is a very pretty girl, and has attracted admirers who have occasionally hung about the place.

That is the only drawback which we have found to her, but we believe her to be a thoroughly good girl in every way.

“So much for the servants. My family itself is so small that it will not take me long to describe it.

I am a widower and have an only son, Arthur. He has been a disappointment to me, Mr. Holmes—a grievous (严重的) disappointment.

I have no doubt that I am myself to blame.

People tell me that I have spoiled him.

Very likely I have. When my dear wife died I felt that he was all I had to love.

I could not bear to see the smile fade even for a moment from his face.

I have never denied him a wish.

Perhaps it would have been better for both of us had I been sterner, but I meant it for the best.