Chapter 25
=================
“I come to a part of my story now in which I should wish to be particularly so.

I am not a very heavy sleeper, and the anxiety in my mind tended, no doubt, to make me even less so than usual.

About two in the morning, I was awakened by some sound in the house.

It had stopped before I was wide awake, but it had left an impression behind it as though a window had gently closed somewhere.

I lay listening with all my ears.

Suddenly, to my horror, there was a distinct sound of footsteps moving softly in the next room.

I slipped out of bed, shaking with fear, and peeped round the corner of my dressing-room door.

“ ‘Arthur!’ I screamed, ‘you villain (坏人) ! you thief! How dare you touch that coronet (王冠) ?’


“My unhappy boy, dressed only in his shirt and trousers, was standing beside the light, holding the coronet (王冠) in his hands.

He appeared to be pulling at it, or bending it with all his strength.

At my cry he dropped it from his grasp and turned as pale as death.

I snatched it up and examined it.

One of the gold corners, with three of the beryls in it, was missing.

“ ‘You villain (坏人) !’ I shouted, beside myself with rage.

‘You have destroyed it! You have dishonoured me forever!

Where are the jewels which you have stolen?’

“ ‘Stolen!’ he cried.

“ ‘Yes, thief!’ I roared, shaking him by the shoulders.

“ ‘There are none missing. There cannot be any missing,’ said he.

“ ‘There are three missing.

And you know where they are.

Must I call you a liar as well as a thief? Did I not see you trying to tear off another piece?’

“ ‘You have insulted me enough,’ said he, ‘I will not stand it any longer.

I shall not say another word about this business, since you have chosen to insult me.

I will leave your house in the morning and make my own way in the world.’

“ ‘You shall leave it in the hands of the police!’ I cried half-mad with grief (悲痛) and rage.

‘I shall have them investigate this matter to the end!’

“ ‘You shall learn nothing from me,’ said he with a passion such as I should not have thought was in his nature.

‘If you choose to call the police, let the police find what they can.’

“By this time the whole house was awake, for I had raised my voice in my anger.

Mary was the first to rush into my room,

and, at the sight of the coronet (王冠) and of Arthur’s face, she understood the whole story and, with a scream, fell down unconscious on the floor.

I sent the house-maid for the police and put the investigation into their hands at once.

When the police entered the house, Arthur, who had stood sullenly with his arms folded, asked me whether I planned to charge him with theft.

I answered that it had ceased to be a private matter, but had become a public one, since the ruined coronet (王冠) was national property.

I was determined that the law should be followed.

“ ‘At least,’ said he, ‘do not have me arrested at once.

It would be better for you, as well as for me, if I might leave the house for five minutes.’

“ ‘Then you may get away, or perhaps hide what you have stolen,’ I said.

And then, realizing the dreadful position in which I was placed, I begged him to remember that not only my honour,

but that of one who was far greater than I, was at stake; and that he threatened to cause a national scandal.

He might avoid it all if he would only tell me what he had done with the three missing stones.

“ ‘You may as well face it,’ said I, ‘you have been caught in the act, and no confession could make your guilt more obvious.

If you do what you can to undo the damage, by telling us where the beryls are, all shall be forgiven and forgotten.’

“ ‘Keep your forgiveness for those who ask for it,’ he answered, turning away from me with a sneer.

I saw that he was too hardened for any words of mine to influence him.

There was only one thing to do.

I called in the inspector and gave him into custody (拘留) .

A search was made at once not only of his person, but of his room and of every portion of the house where he could possibly have concealed the jewels.

No trace (痕迹) of them could be found, nor would the wretched boy open his mouth for all our persuasions and our threats.

This morning he was removed to a cell,

and I, after going through all the police formalities, have hurried round to you to beg you to use your skill in unravelling the matter.

The police have openly confessed that they can at present make nothing of it.

You may go to any expense which you think necessary.

I have already offered a reward of a thousand pounds.

My God, what shall I do! I have lost my honour, my jewels, and my son in one night. Oh, what shall I do!”

He put a hand on either side of his head and rocked himself to and fro (向后) , like a child whose grief (悲痛) is beyond words.
