Chapter 7
=================
It was one o’clock when we left No. 3, Lauriston Gardens.

Sherlock Holmes led me to the nearest telegraph office, where he left a long telegram.

He then called a cab, and ordered the driver to take us to the address given by Lestrade.

“There is nothing like first-hand evidence,” he remarked,

“as a matter of fact, my mind is entirely made up upon the case, but still we may as well learn all that is to be learned.”

“You surprise me, Holmes,” said I.

“Surely you are not as sure as you pretend to be of all those details which you gave.”

“There’s no room for a mistake,” he answered.

“The very first thing which I observed on arriving there was that a cab had made two grooves (车槽) with its wheels close to the curb.

Now, up to last night, we have had no rain for a week, so that those wheels which left such a deep impression must have been there during the night.

Since the cab was there after the rain began, and was not there at any time during the morning—

I have Gregson’s word for that—it follows that it must have been there during the night.

Therefore, the cab brought those two individuals to the house.”

“That seems simple enough,” said I, “but how about the other man’s height?”

“Well, the height of a man, in nine cases out of ten, can be told from the length of his step.

It is a simple calculation.

I had this fellow’s footprints both on the clay outside and on the dust within.

Then I had a way of checking my calculation. When a man writes on a wall, his instinct leads him to write about the level of his own eyes.

Now that writing was just over six feet from the ground.

It was child’s play.”

“And his age?” I asked.

“If a man can step four and a half feet without the smallest effort, he can’t be that old.

That was the range of a puddle (水坑) on the garden path which he had obviously walked across.

Leather boots had gone round, and square-toes had jumped over.

There is no mystery about it at all.

I am simply applying to ordinary life a few of those methods of observation and deduction (推理) which I recommended in that article.

Is there anything else that puzzles you?”

“The finger-nails and the Trichinopoly,” I suggested.

“The writing on the wall was done with a man’s forefinger dipped in blood.

My glass allowed me to observe that the plaster was slightly scratched in doing it, which would not have been the case if the man’s nail had been cut.

I gathered up some scattered ash from the floor.

It was dark in color and flaky (薄片状的) —such an ash as is only made by a Trichinopoly.

I have made a special study of cigar ashes, so I can distinguish at a glance the ash of any known brand.

It is just in such details that the skilled detective differs from the Gregson and Lestrade type.”

“And the reddish face?” I asked.

“Ah, that was a more daring guess, though I have no doubt that I was right.

You must not ask me that at the present state of the affair.”

I passed my hand over my forehead.

“My head is in a spin,” I remarked, “the more one thinks of it the more mysterious it grows.

How did these two men—if there were two men—come into an empty house?

What has become of the cabman (马车夫) who drove them?

How could one man compel another to take poison? Where did the blood come from?

What was the aim of the murderer, since robbery had no part in it?

How did the woman’s ring come there?

Above all, why should the second man write up the German word RACHE before leaving?

I confess that I cannot see any possible way of connecting all these facts.”

My companion smiled.

“You sum (总结) up the problems of the situation briefly and well,” he said.

“There is much that is still obscure, though I have quite made up my mind on the main facts.

As to poor Lestrade’s discovery, it was simply a criminal intended to put the police upon a wrong track.

It was not done by a German.

The A, if you noticed, was printed somewhat after the German fashion.

Now, a real German invariably prints in the Latin character,

so that we may safely say that this was not written by a German, but by an awkward imitator.

It was simply a trick to distract inquiry into a wrong direction.

I’m not going to tell you much more of the case, Doctor.

You know a performer gets no credit when once he has explained his trick, and if I show you too much of my method of working,

you will come to the conclusion that I am a very ordinary individual after all.”

“I will never do that,” I answered.

“I’ll tell you one other thing,” he continued, smiling.

“Leathers and Square-toes came in the same cab, and they walked down the pathway (小路) together as friendly as possible—arm-in-arm.

When they got inside, they walked up and down the room—or rather, Leathers stood still while Square-toes walked up and down.

I could read all that in the dust, and I could also read that as he walked Square-toes grew more and more excited.

That is shown by the large steps.

He was talking all the while, and becoming more and more upset.

Then the tragedy occurred.

I’ve told you all I know myself now, and the rest remains to be revealed.

However, we have a good working basis to start on.”

Then the cab stopped, and we had arrived at Audley Court, which was not an attractive place.

The narrow passage led us into a courtyard covered with flagstones and lined by sordid (破烂的) houses.

We picked our way among groups of dirty children, and through washing-lines of stained clothes, until we came to Number 46,

whose door had a small slip of brass on which was written the name－Rance.

The officer appeared, looking a little irritable (烦躁的) at being disturbed in his sleep.

“I made my report at the office,” he said.


Holmes took a gold coin from his pocket and played with it.

“We thought that we should like to hear it all from your own lips,” Holmes said.

“I will be most happy to tell you anything I can,” Rance answered with his eyes upon the little gold coin.

“Just let us hear it all in your own way as it happened.”

Rance sat down on the sofa.