Chapter 8
====================
“I’ll tell it to you from the beginning,” he said.

“My time is from ten at night to six in the morning.

At eleven there was a fight at the ‘White Hart’, but except for the fight, everything else was quiet.

At one o’clock it began to rain, and I met Harry Murcher and we stood together at the corner of Henrietta Street talking.

Maybe about two or a little after—I thought I would take a look round and see that all was right down the Brixton Road.

It was dirty and lonely. Not a soul did I meet all the way down, though a cab or two went past me.

I was walking down when suddenly a light caught my eye in the window of that same house where the murder happened.”

“There was no one in the street?”

“Not a living soul, sir, nor as much as a dog. Then I pushed the door open.

All was quiet inside, so I went into the room where the light was burning.

There was a candle on the mantelpiece (壁炉架) —a red one—and by its light I saw—”

“Yes, I know all that you saw.

You walked round the room several times, and you knelt down by the body, and then you walked through and tried the kitchen door, and then—”

John Rance sprang to his feet with a frightened face and suspicion in his eyes.

“Where were you hidden to see all that?” he cried.

“It seems to me that you know much more than you should.”

Holmes laughed and threw his card across the table to the officer.

“Don’t arrest me for the murder,” he said.

“I am one of the hunters and not the wolf.

Mr. Gregson or Mr. Lestrade will answer for that.

Go on, though. What did you do next?”

Rance sat back on the sofa, and continued.

“I went back to the gate and blew my whistle. That brought Murcher and two more to the spot.”

“Was the street empty then?”

“Well, it was, as far as anybody that could be of any use goes.”

“What do you mean?”

The officer began to smile.

“I’ve seen many a drunken (喝醉的) chap in my time,” he said, “but never anyone so drunk as that man.

He was at the gate when I came out, leaning up against the fence, and singing at the top of his voice.

He couldn’t stand, far less help us.”

“What sort of a man was he?” asked Sherlock Holmes.

John Rance appeared to be somewhat irritated at this question.

“He was an unusually drunk sort of man,” he said.

“We would have taken him to the police station if we hadn’t been so busy.”

“His face—his dress—didn’t you notice them?” Holmes broke in impatiently (不耐烦地) .

“I should think I did notice them, seeing that I had to stand him up between me and Murcher.

He was a tall chap, with a red face.”

“That will do,” cried Holmes. “What became of him?”

“We had enough to do without looking after him,” the policeman said, in an indignant voice.

“I’ll bet he found his way home all right.”

“How was he dressed?”

“A brown coat.”

“You didn’t happen to see or hear a cab after that?”

“No.”

“There’s a gold coin for you,” my companion said, standing up and taking his hat.

“I am afraid, Rance, that you will never rise in the force.

The man whom you held in your hands is the man who holds the clue of this mystery, and whom we are seeking. Come along, Doctor.”

We started off for the cab together, leaving the officer confused.

“The fool,” Holmes said, bitterly, as we drove back to our home.

“I am rather in the dark still.

It is true that the description of this man is consistent with your idea of the murderer in this mystery.

But why should he come back to the house after leaving it? That is not the way of criminals.”

“The ring, man, the ring. That was what he came back for.

If we have no other way of catching him, we can always bait (引诱) our line with the ring.

I will have him, Doctor—I’ll bet you two to one that I have him.

This is the finest study I ever came across: a study in scarlet.

That’s what we should call it. There’s the scarlet thread of murder running through the colorless skein of life, and our duty is to unravel (解开) it, and isolate it, and expose every inch of it.”

“What’s the matter? You’re not looking quite yourself. This Brixton Road affair has upset you.” Holmes asked me after we arrived home.

“To tell the truth, it has,” I said.

“I ought to be less sensitive after my Afghan experiences.

I saw my own friends chopped to pieces at Maiwand without losing my nerve.”

“I can understand. There is a mystery about this which stimulates the imagination.

Where there is no imagination, there is no horror. Have you seen the evening paper?”

“No.”

“It gives a fairly good account of the affair.

It does not mention the fact that when the man was lifted up, a woman’s wedding ring fell upon the floor.”

“Why?”

“Look at this advertisement,” he answered. “I had one sent to every paper this morning immediately after the affair.”

He threw the paper across to me and I glanced at the place he indicated.

It was the first announcement in the “Found” column.

“In Brixton Road, this morning,” it ran, “a plain gold wedding ring, found in the roadway between the ‘White Hart’ Tavern and Holland Grove. Apply Dr. Watson, 221B, Baker Street, between eight and nine this evening.”

“Excuse my using your name,” he said.

“If I used my own, some of these stupid detectives would recognize it, and want to interfere with the affair.”

“That is all right,” I answered. “But, supposing anyone responds, I have no ring.”

“Oh yes, you have,” said he, handing me one. “This will do very well. It is almost a perfect copy.”

“And who do you expect will answer this advertisement.”

“Well, the man in the brown coat—our red-faced friend with the square toes.

If he does not come himself, he will send an accomplice (同犯) .”