Chapter 9
==============
“There was no wind that night, I understand,” said Holmes.

“None; but very heavy rain.”

“In that case the overcoat was not blown against the bush, but placed there.”

“Yes, it was placed over the bush.”

“Interesting. I see that the ground has been trampled on a good deal. No doubt many feet have been here since Monday night.”

“A piece of matting (席子) has been laid here at the side, and we have all stood upon that.”

“Excellent.”

“In this bag I have one of the boots which Straker wore, one of Fitzroy Simpson’s shoes, and an old horseshoe (铁蹄) of Silver Blaze.”

“My dear Inspector, I congratulate you on your forethought (深谋远虑) !” Holmes took the bag, and, going down into the hollow, he pushed the matting (席子) into a more central position.

Then, lying down and resting his chin on his hands, he made a careful study of the trampled mud in front of him.

“Hullo!” said he, suddenly. “What’s this?” It was a half burned match, which was so coated with mud that it looked at first like a little piece of wood.


“I cannot think how I failed to see it,” said the Inspector, with an expression of annoyance.

“It was invisible, buried in the mud. I only saw it because I was looking for it.”

“What! You expected to find it?”

“I thought it not unlikely.”

He took the boots from the bag, and compared the impressions of each of them with marks upon the ground.

Then he went back up to the edge of the hollow, and crawled about among the bushes.

“I am afraid that there are no more tracks,” said the Inspector. “I have examined the ground very carefully for a hundred yards in each direction.”

“Indeed!” said Holmes, rising. “If you say so, there is no reason for me to do so as well.

But I should like to take a walk over the moor before it grows dark,

so that I may know the ground tomorrow, and I think that I shall put this horseshoe (马蹄铁) into my pocket for luck.”

Colonel Ross, impatient at my companion’s quiet and systematic method of work, looked at his watch.

“Please come back with me, Inspector,” said he. “There are several points on which I should like your advice,

and especially whether we owe it to the public to remove our horse’s name from the entries for the Cup.”

“Certainly not,” cried Holmes, with decision. “I should let the name stand.”

“I am very glad to have had your opinion, sir,” said Colonel Ross.

“You will find us at poor Straker’s house when you have finished your walk, and we can drive together into Tavistock.”

He turned back with the Inspector, while Holmes and I walked slowly across the moor.

The sun was beginning to sink, and in its light the long, sloping plain in front of us shone like gold.

But the glories of the landscape were all wasted upon my companion, who was sunk in the deepest thought.

“It’s this way, Watson,” said he at last.

“We may leave the question of who killed John Straker for the moment, and limit ourselves to finding out what has happened to the horse.

Now, supposing that he escaped during or after the tragedy, where could he have gone to? Horses are very gregarious (群居的) animals.

If left to himself his instincts would have been either to return to King’s Pyland, or go over to Mapleton.

Why should he run wild upon the moor? He would surely have been seen by now. And why should gypsies (吉卜赛人) take him?

These people always leave when they hear of trouble, because they do not wish to be bothered by the police.

They could not hope to sell such a horse. They would run a great risk, and gain nothing, by taking him. Surely that is clear.”

“Where is he, then?”

“I have already said that he must have gone to King’s Pyland or to Mapleton. He is not at King’s Pyland.

Therefore, let us take as a working assumption that he is at Mapleton, and see what it leads us to.

This part of the moor, as the Inspector said, is very hard and dry.

But it slopes downward towards Mapleton, and you can see from here that there is a long valley over there, which must have been very wet on Monday night.

If my idea is correct, then the horse must have crossed that, and there is the point where we should look for his tracks.”

We had been walking quickly during this conversation, and a few more minutes brought us to the valley.

At Holmes’s request I walked down on the right side, and he on the left,

but I had not taken fifty paces before I heard him shout, and saw him waving his hand to me.

The track of a horse could be clearly seen in the soft earth in front of him,

and the horseshoe (马蹄铁) which he took from his pocket exactly fitted the impression.

“See the value of imagination,” said Holmes. “It is the one quality which Gregory lacks.

We imagined what might have happened, acted upon our idea, and find ourselves justified. Let us proceed.”

We crossed the marshy (湿地的) bottom and passed over a quarter of a mile of dry, hard ground. Then came another low area, and again we saw the horse’s tracks.

Then we lost them for half a mile, but found them again quite close to Mapleton.

It was Holmes who saw them first, and he stood pointing at the tracks with a look of triumph upon his face. A man’s track was visible beside the horse’s.

“The horse was alone before,” I cried.

“Quite so. It was alone before. Now, what is this?”

The double track turned in the direction of King’s Pyland. Holmes whistled, and we both followed along after it.

I happened to look a little to one side, and saw to my surprise the same tracks coming back again in the opposite direction.

“Well done, Watson!” said Holmes, when I pointed it out.

“You have saved us a long walk, which would have brought us back on our own traces (痕迹) . Let us follow the return track.”

We did not have to go far. It ended at the road which led up to the gates of the Mapleton stables.

As we approached, a groom ran out from them.

“We don’t want any strangers hanging about here,” said he.

“I only wished to ask a question,” said Holmes. “Should I be too early to see your master, Mr. Silas Brown, if I called at five o’clock tomorrow morning?”

“If anyone is awake he will be, for he is always the first to be up and about. But here he is, sir, to answer your questions for himself.

No, sir, no, if he saw me touch your money, I would lose my job. You could give it to me later, if you like.”

As Sherlock Holmes replaced the coin which he had taken from his pocket,

a fierce-looking elderly man came quickly out from the gate with a hunting-whip swinging in his hand.

“What the devil do you two want here?” he shouted.

“Ten minutes’ talk with you, my good sir,” said Holmes in the sweetest of voices.

“I’ve no time to talk to every passing stranger. Go away now, or you may find a dog at your heels.”

Holmes walked up to the trainer and whispered something in his ear. The trainer replied, shocked and angry, “It’s a lie, an infernal (可恨的) lie!”

“Very good. Shall we argue about it here in public or talk about it inside?”

“Oh, come in if you wish to.”

Holmes smiled. “I shall not keep you more than a few minutes, Watson,” said he. “Now, Mr. Brown, let us have our talk.”

It was twenty minutes, and the light of the setting sun had faded completely, before Holmes and the trainer reappeared.

In that short time, Silas Brown’s appearance had changed completely.

His face had turned white, drops of sweat shone upon his forehead, and his hands trembled until the hunting-whip shook like a tree branch in the wind.

His bullying, overbearing (傲慢的) manner was all gone too, and he followed quietly at my companion’s side like a dog with its master.


“What you say will be done. It shall all be done,” said he.

“There must be no mistake,” said Holmes, looking round at him. The other winced as he read the menace in his eyes.

“Oh no, there shall be no mistake. It shall be there. Should I change it first or not?”

Holmes thought a little and then burst out laughing. “No, don’t,” said he; “I shall write to you about it. No tricks, now, or—”

“Oh, you can trust me, you can trust me!”

“Yes, I think I can. Well, you shall hear from me tomorrow.” He turned around,

pretending not to notice the trembling hand which the other held out to him, and we set off for King’s Pyland.