Chapter 2
================
“ ‘Well,’ said he, showing me the advertisement, ‘you can see for yourself that the League has a place open,

and there is the address where you should apply for details.

As far as I understand, the League was started by a rich American, Ezekiah Hopkins, who was very peculiar in his ways.

He was himself red-headed, and he had a great sympathy for all red-headed men.

When he died it was found that he had left his enormous fortune to be used to give easy work to men whose hair is of that color.

From all I hear it is splendid pay and very little to do.’

“ ‘But,’ said I, ‘there would be millions of red-headed men who would apply.’

“ ‘Not so many as you might think,’ he answered. ‘You see it is really limited to Londoners, and to grown men.

This American started his business in London when he was young, and he wanted to help the old town.

Then, again, I have heard it is no use applying if your hair is light red,

or dark red, or anything except real bright, blazing, fiery (火红的) red.

Now, if you cared to apply, Mr. Wilson, I am sure you would get in.

But perhaps it would hardly be worth the effort for just a few hundred pounds.’

“Now, as you can see, my hair is of a very full and rich color,

so it seemed to me that I stood as good a chance as any other man.

Vincent Spaulding seemed to know so much about it that I thought he might prove useful,

so I ordered him to close for the day and to come with me.

So we shut the business up and started off for the address that was given us in the advertisement.

“I will never see such a sight as that again, Mr. Holmes.

From north, south, east, and west every man who had a shade of red in his hair had come into the city to answer the advertisement.

Fleet Street was completely full of red-headed people, and Pope’s Court looked like a cart full of oranges.

I should not have thought there were as many people in the whole country as the people brought together by that single advertisement.

Every shade of color was there—straw, lemon, orange, brick, raw meat;

but, as Spaulding said, there were not many who had the real bright flame color.

When I saw how many were waiting, I would have given it up in despair; but Spaulding would not hear of it.

How he did it I could not imagine, but he pushed and pulled and shoved until he got me through the crowd,

and right up to the steps which led to the office.

Some were going up in hope, and some coming back disappointed;

but we did our best to move ahead and soon found ourselves in the office.”

“There was nothing in the office but a couple of wooden chairs and a table,

behind which sat a small man with hair even redder than mine.

He said a few words to each candidate as he came up, and then he always managed to find some fault in each of them.

Getting a place did not seem to be such a very easy matter, after all.

However, when our turn came the little man was much more favorable to me than to any of the others,

and he closed the door as we entered, so that he might have a private word with us.

“ ‘This is Mr. Jabez Wilson,’ said my assistant, ‘and he is willing to fill a place in the League.’

“ ‘And he is very well suited for it,’ the other answered.

‘He has every requirement. I have seen never anything so fine.’ He took a step back and looked at my hair until I felt quite shy.

Then suddenly he stepped forward, shook my hand, and congratulated me warmly on my success.

“ ‘I am sorry,’ said he, ‘please excuse me for taking an obvious precaution.’

With that he seized my hair in both his hands, and pulled until I screamed with the pain.

‘There is water in your eyes,’ said he as he let me go.

‘I can see that all is as it should be. But we have to be careful, for we have twice been deceived by wigs (假发) and once by paint.’

He stepped over to the window and shouted through it at the top of his voice that the place was filled.

A groan of disappointment came up from below,

and everyone went away in different directions until there was not a red head to be seen except my own and that of the manager.

“ ‘My name,’ said he, ‘is Mr. Duncan Ross, and I myself receive an income from this fund.

Are you a married man, Mr. Wilson? Have you a family?’

“I answered that I had not.

“His face fell immediately.

“ ‘Dear me!’ he said, ‘that is very serious indeed! I am sorry to hear you say that.

The fund was, of course, for the spread of red-heads as well as for their maintenance.

It is most unfortunate that you should be a bachelor.’

“My face lengthened at this, Mr. Holmes, for I thought that I was not to have the place after all;

but after thinking it over for a few minutes he said that it would be all right.

“ ‘In the case of another,’ said he, ‘the objection might be fatal,

but we must stretch a point in favor of a man with such a head of hair as yours.

When will you be able to start your new duties?’

“ ‘Well, it is a little difficult, for I have a business already,’ said I.

“ ‘Oh, never mind about that, Mr. Wilson!’ said Vincent Spaulding. ‘I should be able to look after that for you.’

“ ‘What would be the hours?’ I asked.

“ ‘Ten to two.’

“Now a pawnbroker (典当商) ’s business is mostly done in the evening, Mr. Holmes, especially Thursday and Friday evenings, which are just before pay-day.

It would suit me very well to earn a little in the mornings.

Besides, I knew that my assistant was a good man, and that he would take care of any business issues.

“ ‘That would suit me very well,’ said I. ‘And the pay?’

“ ‘Is four pounds a week.’

“ ‘And the work?’

“ ‘Is very easy.’

“ ‘What do you call very easy?’

“ ‘Well, you have to be in the office, or at least in the building, the whole time.

If you leave, you lose your place forever. The will is very clear upon that point.’

“ ‘It’s only four hours a day, and I should not think of leaving,’ said I.

“ ‘No excuses accepted,’ said Mr. Duncan Ross, ‘neither sickness nor business nor anything else. There you must stay, or you lose your place.’

“ ‘And the work?’

“ ‘Is to copy out the Encyclopedia (百科全书) Britannica. There is the first volume of it on the table.

You must find your own ink, pens, and blotting-paper, but we provide this table and chair. Will you be ready tomorrow?’


“ ‘Certainly,’ I answered.

“ ‘Then, good-bye, Mr. Jabez Wilson, and let me congratulate you once more on the important position which you have been lucky enough to gain.’

He bowed to me and wished me goodbye, and I went home with my assistant, hardly knowing what to say or do.

I was so pleased at my own good luck.

“Well, I thought about it all day, and by evening I was depressed again.

I had quite persuaded myself that the whole affair must be some trick, though what its purpose might be I could not imagine.

It seemed unbelievable that anyone would make such a will,

or that they would pay such a sum (一笔钱) for doing anything so simple as copying out the Encyclopedia (百科全书) Britannica.

However, in the morning I determined to try it anyhow, so I bought a penny bottle of ink,

and with a pen and seven large sheets of paper I started off for Pope’s Court.

“Well, to my surprise and delight, everything was as right as possible.

The table was set out ready for me, and Mr. Duncan Ross was there to see that I got properly to work.

He started me off with the letter A, and then he left me;

but he would drop in from time to time to see that all was right with me.

At two o’clock he said goodbye, complimented me upon the amount that I had written, and locked the door of the office after me.

“This went on day after day, Mr. Holmes, and on Saturday the manager came in and gave me four golden one-pound coins for my week’s work.

It was the same next week, and the week after that. Every morning I was there at ten, and every afternoon I left at two.

Mr. Duncan Ross took to coming in only once a day, and then, after a time, he did not come in at all.

Still, of course, I never dared to leave the room for an instant, for I was not sure when he might come,

and the job was such a good one, and suited me so well, that I would not risk losing it.

“Eight weeks passed away like this, and I had written about Abbots and Archery and Armour and Architecture and Attica,

and hoped with hard work that I might get on to the B’s before very long.

It cost me something in paper, and I had nearly filled a shelf with my writings.

And then suddenly the whole business came to an end.”

“To an end?”

“Yes, sir. This morning, I went to my work as usual at ten o’clock,

but the door was shut and locked, with a little square of cardboard fastened to it with a nail. Here it is, you can read it for yourself.”

He held up a piece of white cardboard about the size of a sheet of note-paper. It said:

THE RED-HEADED LEAGUE ISDISSOLVED.October 9, 1890.