Chapter 7
==============
“ ‘Good evening,’ said he, looking through the window.

‘I wanted to have a word with you.’ The girl has sworn that as he spoke she noticed a little folded-up piece of paper in his hand.

“ ‘What business have you here?’ asked the stable boy.

“ ‘It’s business that may put something into your pocket,’ said the other. ‘You’ve two horses racing the Wessex Cup—Silver Blaze and Bayard.

Give me some good information and I’ll make it worth your while.

Is it a fact that at these handicaps Bayard is the more likely to win, and that the stable’s owner has put his money on Bayard?’

“ ‘So, you’re a spy!’ cried the stable boy. ‘I’ll show you how we treat them in King’s Pyland.’ He sprang up and rushed across the stable to untie the dog.

The girl ran away to the house, but as she ran she looked back and saw that the stranger was leaning through the window.

A minute later, however, when Hunter rushed out with the dog, the man was gone,

and though he ran all round the buildings he could not find any sign of him.”

“One moment,” I asked. “Did the stable boy, when he ran out with the dog, leave the door unlocked behind him?”

“Excellent, Watson, excellent!” said my companion. “The importance of the point struck me so strongly that I sent a telegram to Dartmoor yesterday to clear the matter up.

The boy locked the door before he left it. The window, I may add, was not large enough for a man to get through.

“Hunter waited until the other stable boys had returned, and then sent a message to the trainer and told him what had happened.

Straker was excited at hearing the news, although it doe not seem that he realized its true significance.

It left him, however, vaguely uneasy, and Mrs. Straker, waking at one in the morning, found that he was dressing.

She asked him why, and he said that he could not sleep because he was worried about the horses,

and was going to walk down to the stables to see that all was well.

She begged him to remain at home, as it was raining very hard, but he nevertheless put on his raincoat and left the house.

“Mrs. Straker awoke at seven in the morning, to find that her husband had not yet returned.

She quickly dressed herself and set off for the stables. The door was open;

inside, Hunter was sleeping so deeply that he could not be woken up, Silver Blaze was gone, and there were no signs of Mr. Straker.

“The two stable boys who slept in the loft (饲料棚) were quickly woken up. They had heard nothing during the night, for they are both sound sleepers.

Hunter was obviously under the influence of some powerful drug, and no sense could be got out of him.

He was left to sleep it off while the two stable boys, Mrs. Straker, and the maid ran out in search of Straker and the horse.

They still hoped that the trainer had taken out the horse for early exercise, but on climbing a small hill near the house and looking out over the moor,

not only could they see no signs of the missing favorite, but they noticed something which warned them that they were in the presence of a tragedy.

“About a quarter of a mile from the stables John Straker’s raincoat could be seen covering a small bush.

Immediately beyond the raincoat there was a bowl-shaped hollow in the moor, and at the bottom of this the dead body of the unfortunate trainer was found.

His head had been smashed by a fierce blow from some heavy weapon,

and he was wounded on the thigh, where there was a long, clean cut, obviously done by some very sharp instrument.

It was clear, however, that Straker had defended himself against his attackers, for in his right hand he held a small knife,

which was covered with blood up to the handle, while in his left he held a red and black silk tie.

This tie was recognized by the maid as having been worn on the previous evening by the stranger who had visited the stables.

Hunter, when he finally woke up, was also sure that the tie belonged to the stranger from the previous evening.

He was equally certain that the same stranger had, while standing at the window,

drugged his curried mutton, and so made sure that there was no one to guard the stable.

The footprints of the missing horse could be clearly seen in the mud of the hollow where Straker had been murdered.

But from that morning the horse has disappeared, and although a large reward has been offered,

and all the gypsies (吉卜赛人) of Dartmoor are on the alert, no news has come of him.

Finally, an analysis has shown that the remains of the stable boy’s supper contain a large quantity of powdered opium,

while the people at the house ate the same meal on the same night without any bad effect.

“Those are the main facts of the case. I shall now explain what the police have done.

“Inspector Gregory, who has taken charge of the case, is an extremely competent officer. If he only had more imagination he might rise to great heights in his profession.

On his arrival he quickly found and arrested the man upon whom suspicion naturally rested.

There was little difficulty in finding him, for he lived in one of those nearby houses which I have mentioned.

His name is Fitzroy Simpson. He is a man of excellent family and education, who had lost all his money betting on horses,

and who lives now by doing a little quiet book-making in the sporting clubs of London.

An examination of his betting-book shows that he had taken a large number of bets on Silver Blaze.

On being arrested, he said that he had come down to Dartmoor in the hope of getting some information about the King’s Pyland horses,

and also about Desborough, the second favorite, whose trainer was Silas Brown at the Mapleton stables.

He admitted that he had acted as the maid had said, but declared that he had no evil intention, and had simply wished to get some first-hand information.

When shown his tie and told where it was found, he turned very pale,

and was completely unable to explain why it was found in the hand of the murdered man.

His wet clothing showed that he had been out in the storm of the night before,

and his stick was heavy enough to have caused the terrible injuries that had killed the trainer.

On the other hand, there was no wound on his body,

while the state of Straker’s knife would show that at least one of his attackers must have been cut and lost some blood.

There you have it all, Watson, and if you can help me see things any more clearly I shall be very grateful to you.”

I had listened with the greatest interest to the statement which Holmes, with his usual clearness, had made to me.

Though most of the facts were familiar to me, I had not sufficiently appreciated their relative importance, nor their connection to each other.

“Is it not possible,” I suggested, “that the cut on Straker’s leg may have been caused

by his own knife in the rapid and uncontrolled movements which follow any brain injury?”

“It is more than possible; it is probable,” said Holmes. “In that case one of the main points in favor of the accused disappears.”

“And yet,” said I, “even now I fail to understand what the theory of the police can be.”

“I am afraid that whatever theory we state has very serious objections to it,” returned my companion.

“The police probably think that this Fitzroy Simpson, having drugged the stable boy,

and having in some way obtained a copy of the stable key, opened the door and took out the horse, planning to steal him.

His bridle (马勒) is missing, so that Simpson must have put it on the horse.

Then, having left the door open behind him, he was leading the horse away over the moor, when he was either met or overtaken by the trainer.

An argument naturally followed. Simpson beat out the trainer’s brains with his heavy stick without receiving any injury from the small knife which Straker used in self-defense.

After that, either the thief led the horse to some secret hiding-place, or else it may have escaped during the struggle, and be wandering out on the moors.

That is the case as it appears to the police, and improbable as it is, all other explanations are more improbable still.

However, I am sure that once we are there things will become much clearer to us.”