Chapter 4
=============
My friend was an enthusiastic musician, being himself not only a very capable performer but a composer of great ability.

All the afternoon he sat in the concert hall in the most perfect happiness, gently waving his long, thin fingers in time to the music.

His gently smiling face and his soft, dreamy eyes were as unlike those of Holmes, the hunter of evil-doers,

Holmes the relentless (铁面无私的) , brilliant, ready-handed detective, as one could possibly imagine.

His unique character had two natures within it, and his extreme exactness and active intelligence represented,

I have often thought, a reaction against the poetic and contemplative mood which occasionally took charge of him.

The swing of his nature took him from extreme laziness to all-consuming energy;

and, as I knew well, he was never so truly formidable as when, for days on end,

he had been lazing in his armchair playing his violin and looking through his rare books.

Then the lust (渴望) of the chase would suddenly come upon him, and his brilliant reasoning power would rise to the level of intuition,

until those who did not know his methods would look strangely at him, as at a man whose knowledge was not that of other human beings.

When I saw him that afternoon so engrossed (全神贯注的) in the music at St. James’s Hall,

I felt that an evil time might be coming upon those whom he was hunting down.

“You want to go home, no doubt, Doctor,” he said as we came out.

“Yes, I probably should.”

“And I have some business to do which will take some hours. This business at Coburg Square is serious.”

“Why serious?”

“A major crime is being planned. I believe we shall be in time to stop it,

but today being Saturday rather complicates matters. I shall want your help to-night.”

“At what time?”

“Ten will be early enough.”

“I shall be at Baker Street at ten.”

“Very well. And Doctor, there may be some little danger, so kindly put your army gun in your pocket.”

He waved his hand, turned on his heel, and disappeared in an instant among the crowd.

I hope that I am no less intelligent than my neighbors, but I always felt a sense of my own stupidity in my dealings with Sherlock Holmes.

Here I had heard what he had heard, I had seen what he had seen, and yet from his words it was obvious that

he saw clearly not only what had happened but what was about to happen, while to me the whole business was still confusing and strange.

As I drove home to my house in Kensington I thought over it all,

from the extraordinary story of the red-headed copier of the Encyclopedia (百科全书) down to the visit to Saxe-Coburg Square,

and the ominous (不吉利的) words with which he had parted from me.

What was this night-time expedition, and why did he want me to bring my gun?

Where were we going, and what were we to do?

I had the hint from Holmes that this smooth-faced pawnbroker (当铺商) ’s assistant was a formidable man—one who might play a deep game.

I tried to puzzle it out, but gave it up in despair and set the matter aside until night should bring an explanation.

It was a quarter past nine when I started from home and walked across the Park, and then along Oxford Street to Baker Street.

Two cabs were standing at the door, and as I entered I heard the sound of voices from above.

On entering his room I found Holmes in lively conversation with two men, one of whom I recognized as Peter Jones,

the official police detective, while the other was a long, thin, sad-faced man, with a shiny hat and a long, very respectable coat.

“Ha! Our party is complete,” said Holmes, buttoning up his jacket and taking his heavy hunting whip.

“Watson, I think you know Mr. Jones, of Scotland Yard? Let me introduce you to Mr. Merryweather, who is to be our companion in tonight’s adventure.”

“We’re hunting in couples again, Doctor, you see,” said Jones.

“Our friend here is a wonderful man for starting a chase. All he wants is an old dog to help him to do the running down.”

“I hope a wild goose may not prove to be the end of our chase,” said Mr. Merryweather gloomily.

“You may trust Mr. Holmes, sir,” said the detective.

“He has his own methods, which are, if he won’t mind my saying so,

just a little too theoretical and fantastic, but he has the makings of a detective in him.

Once or twice, as in that business of the Sholto murder and the Agra treasure, he has been more nearly correct than the official force.”

“Oh, if you say so, Mr. Jones, it is all right,” said the stranger. “Still, I confess that I miss my game of cards.

It is the first Saturday night for twenty-seven years that I have had to miss it.”

“I think you will find,” said Sherlock Holmes, “that you will play for a higher stake tonight than you have ever done yet,

and that the play will be more exciting. For you, Mr. Merryweather, the stake will be some 30,000 pounds; and for you, Jones,

it will be the man upon whom you wish to lay your hands.”

“John Clay, the murderer, thief, smasher, and forger,” said Mr. Jones.

“He’s a young man, Mr. Merryweather, but he is at the head of his profession,

and I would rather capture him than any criminal in London. Young John Clay is a remarkable man.

His grandfather was a duke (公爵) , and he himself has been to Eton and Oxford.

His brain is as cunning (灵活的) as his fingers, and though we meet signs of him at every turn, we never know where to find the man himself.

He’ll rob a house in Scotland one week, and be raising money to build an orphanage (孤儿院) in Cornwall the next.

I’ve been after him for years and have never set eyes on him yet.”

“I hope that I may have the pleasure of introducing you tonight,” said Holmes.

“I’ve had one or two little turns also with Mr. John Clay, and I agree with you that he is at the head of his profession.

It is past ten, however, and quite time that we started. If you two will take the first cab, Watson and I will follow in the second.”

Sherlock Holmes was not very talkative during the long drive, and lay back in the cab humming the tunes which he had heard in the afternoon.

We passed through a maze (迷宫) of gas-lit streets until we came to Farrington Street.

“We are close now,” said my friend. “This fellow Merryweather is a bank director, and personally concerned in the matter.

I thought it best to have Jones with us also. He is not a bad fellow, though an absolute idiot in his profession.

He has one positive virtue. He is as brave as a bulldog (斗牛犬) and holds on as tightly as a lobster (龙虾) if he gets his claws upon anyone.

Here we are, and they are waiting for us.”

We had reached the same busy road where we had found ourselves in the morning.

Our cabs were dismissed, and, following Mr. Merryweather, we passed down a narrow passage and through a side door, which he opened for us.

Within there was a small passage, which ended in a heavy iron gate.

Mr. Merryweather opened the gate, and led us down some stone steps, which ended at another heavy, solid gate.

Mr. Merryweather stopped to light a lantern, and then led us down a dark passage that smelt of earth,

and then, after opening a third door, into a cellar full of large, heavy boxes.


“You are quite safe from above,” Holmes remarked as he held up the lantern and looked about him.

“And from below,” said Mr. Merryweather, striking his stick upon the stone tiles which lined the floor.

“Why, dear me, it sounds quite hollow!” he remarked, looking up in surprise.

“Quiet, please!” said Holmes severely, “You have already endangered the whole success of our expedition.

Please sit down on one of those boxes, and do not interfere!”

The solemn Mr. Merryweather sat on the edge of a crate (板条箱) , with a very injured expression upon his face,

while Holmes fell upon his knees upon the floor and, with the lantern and a magnifying lens, began to closely examine the cracks between the stones.

A few seconds were enough to satisfy him, for he sprang to his feet again and put his lens in his pocket.

“We have at least an hour before us,” he remarked, “for they can hardly take any steps until the good pawnbroker (典当商) is safely in bed.

Then they will not lose a minute, for the sooner they do their work the more time they will have for their escape.

We are now, Doctor—as no doubt you have guessed—in the cellar of the City branch of one of the largest London banks.

Mr. Merryweather is the chairman, and he will explain to you that there are reasons

why the more daring criminals of London should take a considerable interest in this cellar at present.”

“It is our French gold,” whispered the director. “We have had several warnings that an attempt might be made upon it.”

“Your French gold?”

“Yes. Some months ago we needed more reserves, and borrowed for that purpose 30,000 gold Napoleon coins from the Bank of France.

It has become known that we have never unpacked the money, and that it is still lying in our cellar. The crate (板条箱) upon which I sit contains 2,000 coins.

Our gold reserves are much larger at present than the amount usually kept in a single branch office, and the directors have had some concerns on the subject.”