Chapter 6
==============
“I am afraid, Watson, that I shall have to go,” said Holmes, as we sat down together to our breakfast one morning.

“Go! Where to?”

“To Dartmoor; to King’s Pyland.”

I was not surprised. Indeed, I was surprised that he had not already been mixed up in this extraordinary case,

which was the one topic of conversation throughout all of England.

For a whole day my companion had walked up and down the room with an expression of intense concentration on his face,

filling his pipe and smoking it and filling it again with the strongest black tobacco, and absolutely deaf to any of my questions or remarks.

Fresh editions of every paper had been sent up by our newsagent, only to be glanced over quickly and then thrown into a corner.

Yet, silent as he was, I knew perfectly well what he was brooding over.

There was only one problem before the public which could challenge his powers of analysis,

and that was the remarkable disappearance of the favorite for the Wessex Cup, and the tragic murder of its trainer.

When, therefore, he suddenly announced his intention of setting out for the scene of the drama, it was only what I had both expected and hoped for.

“I should be most happy to go down with you if I should not be in the way,” said I.

“My dear Watson, you would do me a great favor upon me by coming.

And I think that your time will not be wasted, for there are points about the case which promise to make it an absolutely unique one.

We have, I think, just time to catch our train at Paddington, and I will go further into the matter on our journey.”

And so, an hour or so later, I found myself in the corner of a first-class carriage flying along to Exeter,

while Sherlock Holmes, with his sharp, eager face looking out from his famous outdoor hat

with the flaps covering his ears, read rapidly through the fresh newspapers which he had bought at Paddington Station.

We had left Reading far behind us before he finished the last of them and offered me a cigar.


“We are going well,” said he, looking out of the window and looking down at his watch. “Our rate at present is fifty-three and a half miles an hour.”

“I have not observed the quarter-mile posts,” said I.

“Nor have I. But the telegraph posts upon this line are sixty yards apart, and the calculation is a simple one.

I presume (推测) that you have looked into this matter of the murder of John Straker and the disappearance of Silver Blaze?”

“I have seen what the Telegraph and the Chronicle have to say.”

“It is one of those cases where it is more useful to sort through the details we already have than to obtain fresh evidence.

The tragedy has been so uncommon, so complete, and of such personal importance to so many people,

that we have plenty of speculations, theories, and wild guesses—in fact, more than we need.

The difficulty is to separate the basic facts—absolutely known facts—from the theories of reporters.

Then, having this basis of facts, we shall see what inferences may be drawn and what the keys to this mystery may be.

On Tuesday evening I received telegrams from both Colonel Ross, the owner of the horse, and Inspector Gregory, who is looking after the case, inviting my co-operation.”

“Tuesday evening!” I exclaimed. “And this is Thursday morning. Why didn’t you go down yesterday?”

“Because I made a mistake, my dear Watson—which is, I am afraid, a more common occurrence than any one would think who only knew me through your writings.

I could not believe it possible that the most remarkable horse in England could long remain hidden, especially in so remote and lonely a place as the north of Dartmoor.

From hour to hour yesterday I expected to hear that he had been found, and that the man who had taken him was the murderer of John Straker.

But when another morning had come, and I found that beyond the arrest of young Fitzroy Simpson nothing had been done,

I felt that it was time for me to take action. Yet in some ways I feel that yesterday has not been wasted.”

“You have a theory, then?”

“At least I now understand the known facts of the case.

I shall list them for you, for nothing clears up a case so much as stating it to another person,

and I can hardly expect your co-operation if I do not show you the position from which we start.”

I lay back against the cushions, smoking my cigar, while Holmes gave me a brief review of the events which had led to our journey.

“Silver Blaze,” said he, “is a descendant of the famous race-horse Somomy, and holds as brilliant a record as his famous ancestor.

He is now in his fifth year, and has brought in turn each of the prizes of the horse-racing world to Colonel Ross, his fortunate owner.

Up to the time of the catastrophe he was the favorite for the Wessex Cup, the betting being three to one on him.

He has always, however, been a prime favorite with the racing public, and has never yet disappointed them,

so that even at those odds enormous amounts of money have been bet on him.

It is obvious, therefore, that there were many people who had the strongest interest in preventing Silver Blaze from being there at the start of the race next Tuesday.

“The fact was, of course, well understood at King’s Pyland, where the Colonel’s stable is situated. Every precaution was taken to guard the favorite.

The trainer, John Straker, is a retired jockey (骑师) who rode for Colonel Ross before he became too heavy to ride in races.

He has served the Colonel for five years as jockey (骑师) and for seven as trainer, and has always shown himself to be capable, hard-working, and honest.

There were only three stable boys working for him, because Colonel Ross only had four horses.

One of these stable boys sat up each night in the stable, while the others slept in the loft (饲料棚) . All three bore excellent characters.

John Straker, who is a married man, lived in a small house about two hundred yards from the stables.

He has no children, keeps one maid, and earns enough money for his and his wife’s needs.

The surrounding country is very lonely, but about half a mile to the north there is a small group of houses

which have been built by a Tavistock builder for the use of people recovering from illness, and others who may wish to enjoy the pure Dartmoor air.

Tavistock itself lies two miles to the west, while across the moor, also about two miles away, is the larger training stable of Mapleton,

which belongs to Lord Backwater, and is managed by Silas Brown.

In every other direction the moor is completely wild: the only people you will find there are a few roaming gypsies (吉卜赛人) .

Such was the general situation last Monday night when the catastrophe occurred.

“On that evening the horses had been exercised and watered as usual, and the stables were locked up at nine o’clock.

Two of the stable boys walked up to the trainer’s house, where they had supper in the kitchen, while the third, Ned Hunter, remained on guard.

At a few minutes after nine the maid, Edith Baxter, took him his supper, which consisted of a dish of curried mutton.

She took no liquid, as there was a water-tap in the stables, and it was the rule that the stable boy on duty should drink nothing else.

The maid carried a lantern with her, as it was very dark and the path ran across the open moor.

“Edith Baxter was within thirty yards of the stables, when a man appeared out of the darkness and called to her to stop.

As he stepped into the circle of yellow light thrown by the lantern

she saw that he looked like a gentleman, was dressed in a gray suit, and carried a heavy stick.

She was most impressed, however, by the extreme paleness of his face and by his nervousness. She thought he might be a little over thirty.


“ ‘Can you tell me where I am?’ he asked. ‘I had almost made up my mind to sleep on the moor, when I saw the light of your lantern.’

“ ‘You are close to the King’s Pyland training-stables,’ said she.

“ ‘Oh, indeed! What good luck!’ he cried. ‘I understand that a stable boy sleeps there alone every night.

Perhaps that is his supper which you are carrying to him. Would you like to earn the price of a new dress?’

He took a piece of paper, folded up, out of his pocket. ‘See that the boy has this tonight, and you shall have the prettiest dress that money can buy.’

“She was frightened by the way he was talking, and ran past him to the window through which she usually passed the meals.

It was already opened, and Hunter was seated at the small table inside. She had begun to tell him of what had happened, when the stranger came up again.