Chapter 10
=============
“I have seldom met with a more perfect combination of the bully, coward, and sneak than Silas Brown,” remarked Holmes as we walked along together.

“He has the horse, then?”

“He tried to bluff (吓唬) his way out of it, but I described to him so exactly what his actions had been upon that morning that he is completely sure that I was watching him.

Of course you observed the square toes of the footprints in the mud, and that his boots exactly matched them.

Also, no subordinate of his would have dared to do such a thing.

I described to him how, early in the morning, he noticed a strange horse wandering over the moor.

He was astonished to see, from the white forehead which has given the favorite its name, that Fate had brought to him the only horse that could beat his own.

Then I described how his first impulse had been to lead him back to King’s Pyland,

and how the devil had shown him how he could hide the horse until the race was over,

and how he had led the horse back and hidden it at Mapleton.

When I told him every detail, he admitted everything and only asked how he could save himself.”

“But his stables had been searched?”

“Men who have worked with horses their whole life know all kinds of tricks to disguise them.”

“But are you not afraid to leave the horse with him now, since he has every interest in injuring it?”

“My dear fellow, he will guard it as the apple of his eye. He knows that his only hope of mercy is to produce it safe.”

“Colonel Ross did not impress me as a man who would be likely to show much mercy.”

“It will not be his decision. I follow my own methods, and tell as much or as little as I choose. That is the advantage of being unofficial.

I don’t know whether you observed it, Watson, but the Colonel’s behavior towards me has been somewhat disrespectful (不尊敬的) .

It is only fair that I should have a little amusement at his expense. Say nothing to him about the horse.”

“Certainly not without your permission.”

“And of course this is all quite a minor point compared to the question of who killed John Straker.”

“And you will try to find the murderer now?”

“No, let us go back to London by the night train.”

I was thunderstruck (惊愕的) by my friend’s words. We had only been a few hours in Devonshire,

and I could not understand why he should give up an investigation which he had begun so brilliantly.

Not a word more could I draw from him until we were back at the trainer’s house. The Colonel and the Inspector were waiting for us.

“My friend and I will return to London tonight,” said Holmes. “We have had a charming little breath of your beautiful Dartmoor air.”

The Inspector opened his eyes wide, and the Colonel expression clearly showed his disappointment and disgust.

“So you see no hope of arresting the murderer of poor Straker,” said he.

Holmes shrugged his shoulders. “There are certainly very serious difficulties in the way,” said he.

“I have every hope, however, that your horse will start the race on Tuesday—please make sure that the horse’s jockey (骑师) is ready.

Might I ask for a photograph of Mr. John Straker?”

The Inspector took one from an envelope and handed it to him.

“My dear Gregory, you anticipate all my wants.

If I might ask you to wait here for an instant, I have a question which I should like to put to the maid.”

“I must say that I am rather disappointed in our London consultant,” said Colonel Ross as my friend left the room.

“I do not see that we are any better off than when he came.”

“At least you have his assurance that your horse will run,” said I.

“Yes, I have his assurance,” said the Colonel. “I should prefer to have the horse.”

I was about to make some reply in defense of my friend when he entered the room again.

“Now, gentlemen,” said he, “I am quite ready for Tavistock.”

As we stepped into the carriage one of the stable boys held the door open for us.

A sudden idea seemed to occur to Holmes, for he asked, “You have a few sheep in that field,” he said. “Who takes care of them?”

“I do, sir.”

“Have you noticed anything wrong with them lately?”

“Well, sir, perhaps it’s not important, but three of them have gone lame, sir.”

I could see that Holmes was extremely pleased, for he laughed and rubbed his hands together.

“A long shot, Watson; a very long shot!” said Holmes, “Gregory, let me recommend to your attention this strange illness among the sheep.”

Colonel Ross still wore an expression which showed the poor opinion which he had formed of my companion’s ability,

but I saw by the Inspector’s face that his attention had been keenly aroused (引起) .

“You consider that to be important?” he asked.

“Extremely important.”

“Is there any other point to which you would like to draw my attention?”

“To the curious incident of the dog in the night-time.”

“The dog did nothing in the night-time.”

“That was the curious incident,” remarked Sherlock Holmes.

Four days later Holmes and I were again in the train, going to Winchester to see the race for the Wessex Cup.

We had arranged for Colonel Ross to meet us outside the station, and we drove in his carriage to the race-course outside the town.

It was clear that his feelings towards Holmes were far from friendly.

“I have seen nothing of my horse,” said he.

“I suppose that you would know him when you saw him?” asked Holmes.

The Colonel was very angry. “I have worked with horses for twenty years, and I was never asked such a question as that before,” said he.

“A child would know Silver Blaze, with his white forehead and his black-and-white right front leg.”

“How is the betting on your horse?”

“Well, that is the curious part of it. You could have got fifteen to one yesterday,

but the price has become shorter and shorter, until you can hardly get three to one now.”

“Hum!” said Holmes. “Somebody knows something. That is clear.”

As the carriage stopped, I glanced at the race program to see the entries:

1. Mr. Heath Newton’s The Negro. Red cap. Yellow jacket.

2. Colonel Wardlaw’s Pugilist. Pink cap. Blue and black jacket.

3. Lord Backwater’s Desborough. Yellow cap and sleeves.

4. Colonel Ross’s Silver Blaze. Black cap. Red jacket.

5. Duke (公爵) of Balmoral’s Iris. Yellow and black stripes.

6. Lord Singleford’s Rasper. Purple cap. Black sleeves.

“We withdrew our other horse, trusting in your statement that Silver Blaze will run,” said the Colonel. “Why, what is that? Silver Blaze favorite?”

“Five to four against Silver Blaze!” shouted the bookmakers.

“Five to four against Silver Blaze! Five to fifteen against Desborough! Five to four on the field!”

“Where is my horse?” cried the Colonel in great agitation (激动) . “I have not seen a jockey (骑师) wearing my colors.”

“Only five horses have passed. This must be he.”

As I spoke a powerful horse swept out from the weighing enclosure and ran easily past us,

bearing on its back the well-known black and red colors of the Colonel.

“That’s not my horse,” cried the owner. “That animal does not have a white hair on its body. What have you done, Mr. Holmes?”

“Well, let us see how he gets on,” said my friend, calmly. For a few minutes he gazed through my field-glass.

“An excellent start!” he cried suddenly. “There they are, coming round the bend!”

We had a superb view of the race.

The six horses were so close together that a carpet could have covered them, but half way up, the yellow of the Mapleton stable showed to the front.

Before they reached us, however, Desborough’s bolt was shot, and the Colonel’s horse, showing extra speed, passed the post a good six lengths before its rival.


“It’s my race, anyhow,” said the Colonel, astonished.

“I admit that I can make neither head nor tail of it. Don’t you think that you have kept up your mystery long enough, Mr. Holmes?”

“Certainly, Colonel, you shall know everything. Let us all have a look at the horse together. Here he is,” he continued,

as we went into the weighing enclosure, where only owners and their friends are allowed.

“Just wash his face and his leg in pure alcohol, and you will find that he is the same old Silver Blaze as ever.”

“You astonish me!”

“Someone had disguised your horse, and I took the liberty of running him just as he was sent over.”

“My dear sir, you have done wonders. The horse looks very fit and well. It never ran better in its life.

I owe you a thousand apologies for having doubted your ability. You have done me a great service by recovering my horse.

You would do me an even greater service if you find the murderer of John Straker.”

“I have done so,” said Holmes quietly.