Chapter 5
==============
“Which were very well justified,” observed Holmes.

“And now it is time that we made our plans. I expect that we will need to act within the next hour.

In the meantime, Mr. Merryweather, we must put the screen over that dark lantern.”

“And sit in the dark?”

“I am afraid so. I have a pack of cards in my pocket, and I thought that perhaps you might have your card game after all.

But I see that the enemy’s preparations have gone so far that we cannot risk the presence of a light.

And, first of all, we must choose our positions.

These are daring men, and though we shall take them at a disadvantage, they may do us some harm unless we are careful.

I shall stand behind this crate (板条箱) , and you hide yourselves behind those.

Then, when I flash a light upon them, close in swiftly. If they fire, Watson, then shoot them down.”

I placed my gun, ready to fire, upon the top of the wooden case behind which I had hidden myself.

Holmes closed the slide across the front of his lantern and left us in total darkness.

The smell of hot metal remained to assure us that the light was still there, ready to shine out at any moment.

To me, with my nerves in such a state of expectancy, there was something depressing about the sudden darkness, and in the cold, smelly air of the vault (地窖) .

“They have only one way of escape,” whispered Holmes.

“That is back through the house into Saxe-Coburg Square. I hope that you have done what I asked you, Jones?”

“l have an inspector and two officers waiting at the front door.”

“Then we have stopped all the escape routes. And now we must be silent and wait.”

What a time it seemed! Comparing notes afterwards we found it was only an hour and a quarter,

yet it seemed to me that the night must have almost gone, and the dawn must be breaking above us.

My legs were weary and stiff, for I did not dare to change my position;

yet my nerves were in a state of enormous tension, and my hearing was so acute that I could not only hear the gentle breathing of my companions,

but I could distinguish the deeper, heavier in-breath of the bulky Jones from the thin, sighing note of the bank director.

From my position I could look over the crate (板条箱) in the direction of the floor. Suddenly my eyes saw a light.

At first it was just a bright spot upon the stone floor.

Then it lengthened out until it became a yellow line, and then, without any warning or sound, a hole opened

and a hand appeared—a white, almost womanly hand, which felt about in the center of the little area of light.

For a minute or more the hand searched around, and then it was pulled back as suddenly as it appeared,

and all was dark again except for the single bright spot which marked a gap between the stones.

Suddenly, with a loud tearing sound, one of the broad, white stones was turned over, leaving a large, square hole, through which shone the light of a lantern.

Over the edge there appeared a boyish face, which looked carefully about,

and then, with a hand on each side of the hole, drew itself up until one knee rested upon the edge.

In another instant he stood at the side of the hole and was pulling after him a companion,

agile (敏捷的) and small like himself, with a pale face and a head of very red hair.


“It’s all clear,” he whispered. “Have you got the tools and the bags? Oh, no! Jump, Archie, jump!”

Sherlock Holmes had jumped out and grabbed the intruder (侵入者) by the collar.

The other dived down the hole, and I heard the sound of tearing cloth as Jones grabbed at his jacket.

The light flashed upon a gun, but Holmes’s whip came down on the man’s wrist, and the gun fell upon the stone floor.

“It’s no use, John Clay,” said Holmes calmly. “You have no chance at all.”

“So I see,” the other answered with the utmost coolness. “I think my friend is safe, though I see you almost caught him.”

“There are three men waiting for him at the door,” said Holmes.

“Oh, indeed! You seem to have done the thing very completely. I must compliment you.”

“And I must compliment you,” Holmes answered. “Your red-headed idea was very new and effective.”

“You’ll see your friend again presently,” said Jones. “He’s quicker at climbing down holes than I am. Just hold out your hands for the handcuffs (手铐) .”

“Do not touch me with your filthy (肮脏的) hands,” said our prisoner as the handcuffs (手铐) were fastened around his wrists.

“You may not know that I have royal blood in my veins (血管) . Have the goodness, also, when you speak to me, always to say ‘sir’ and ‘please.’ ”

“All right,” said Jones, laughing quietly to himself.

“Well, would you please, sir, go upstairs, where we can get a cab to carry your Highness to the police station?”

“That is better,” said John Clay. He made a low bow to the three of us and walked quietly off in the custody (羁押) of the detective.

“Really, Mr. Holmes,” said Mr. Merryweather as we followed them from the cellar, “I do not know how the bank can thank you or repay you.

You have detected and defeated, in the most complete manner, one of the most determined attempts at bank robbery that has ever come within my experience.”

“I have wanted to catch Mr. John Clay for some time,” said Holmes.

“I have had some expenses over this matter, which I shall expect the bank to pay back, but beyond that

I have been well rewarded by having had an experience which is in many ways unique, and by hearing the very remarkable story of the Red-headed League.”

“You see, Watson,” he explained in the early hours of the morning as we sat over a glass of whisky (威士忌) and soda in Baker Street,

“it was perfectly obvious from the first that the only possible aim of this rather fantastic business of the advertisement of the League,

and the copying of the Encyclopedia (百科全书) , must be to get this not-very-intelligent pawnbroker (典当商) out of the way for a number of hours every day.

It was a curious way of managing it, but, really, it would be difficult to suggest a better.

The four pounds a week would be too much to refuse, and what was it to them, who were playing for thousands?

They put in the advertisement, one of the criminals has the temporary office,

the other criminal encourages the man to apply for it, and together they make sure that he is away for at least four hours every day.

From the time that I heard of the assistant working for half wages, it was obvious to me that he had some strong reason for taking the job.”

“But how could you guess what the reason was?”

“If there had been women in the house, I should have suspected some kind of love affair.

That, however, was out of the question.

The man’s business was a small one, and there was nothing in his house which could account for such elaborate preparations, or the spending of so much money.

It must, then, be something out of the house. What could it be?

I thought of the assistant’s love for photography, and the way he would disappear into the cellar.

The cellar! There was the solution to this complex problem.

Then I found out this mysterious assistant was one of the smartest and most daring criminals in London.

He was doing something in the cellar—something which took many hours a day for months on end. What could it be?

I could think of nothing except that he was running a tunnel to some other building.

“I had thought this out when we went to visit the scene of action. I surprised you by beating upon the pavement with my stick.

I was finding out whether the cellar stretched out in front or behind. It was not in front.

Then I rang the bell, and, as I hoped, the assistant answered it. We had never met in person before.

I hardly looked at his face—his knees were what I wished to see. You must have noticed how worn and dirty they were.

They spoke of those hours of digging. The only remaining point was what they were digging for.

I walked round the corner, saw the City and Suburban Bank behind our friend’s shop, and felt that I had solved my problem.

When you drove home after the concert I called upon Scotland Yard and upon the chairman of the bank directors, with the result that you have seen.”

“And how could you tell that they would make their attempt tonight?” I asked.

“Well, when they closed their League offices, that showed that they no longer cared about Mr. Jabez Wilson’s presence—in other words, that they had completed their tunnel.

But they had to use it soon, as it might be discovered, or the gold might be removed.

Saturday would suit them better than any other day, as it would give them two days for their escape. For all these reasons I expected them to come tonight.”

“You reasoned it out beautifully,” I exclaimed in real admiration “It is so long a chain, and yet every link rings true.”

“It saved me from boredom,” he answered, yawning. “Alas! I already feel it closing in upon me.

My life is spent in one long effort to escape from the routine of everyday existence. These little problems help me to do so.”

“And you in turn help humanity,” said I.

He shrugged his shoulders. “Well, perhaps, after all, I am of some little use,” he remarked.

“ ‘The man himself is nothing—his work is everything,’ as Gustave Flaubert wrote to George Sand.”