Chapter 11
=================
The Colonel and I stared at him in amazement. “You have got him! Where is he, then?”

“He is here.”

“Here! Where?”

“With us right now.”

The Colonel flushed angrily. “I quite recognize how much I owe you, Mr. Holmes,” said he,

“but I must regard what you have just said as either a very bad joke or an insult.”

Sherlock Holmes laughed. “I do not accuse you of the crime, Colonel,” said he. “The real murderer is standing behind you.” He laid his hand on the horse’s neck.

“The horse!” cried both the Colonel and myself.

“Yes, the horse. And perhaps you will forgive him if I say that it was done in self-defense,

and that John Straker was a man who was entirely unworthy of your trust.

But there goes the bell, and as I hope to win a little on this next race, perhaps I can explain later on.”

The journey back to London felt like a short one to Colonel Ross as well as to myself,

as we listened to our companion’s explanation of the events which had occurred at the Dartmoor training-stables on Monday night,

and the means by which he had unraveled them.

“I admit,” he said, “that the theories which I had formed from the newspaper reports were completely mistaken.

And yet there were clues there, even though they were overlaid by other details which hid their true meaning.

I went to Devonshire completely sure that Fitzroy Simpson was the criminal, although of course I saw that the evidence against him was by no means complete.

It was while I was in the carriage, just as we reached the trainer’s house, that the enormous importance of the curried mutton occurred to me.

You may remember that I seemed distracted, and remained sitting after you had all got out.”

“I must say,” said the Colonel, “that even now I cannot see how it helps us.”

“It was the first link in my chain of reasoning. Powdered opium is by no means tasteless.

The taste is not unpleasant, but it is noticeable. If it were mixed with any ordinary dish the eater would undoubtedly notice it, and would probably eat no more.

A curry (咖喱) was exactly the medium which would disguise this taste. There was no way that this stranger, Fitzroy Simpson, could have caused curry (咖喱) to be served in the trainer’s house that night,

and it is surely too great a coincidence to suppose that he happened to come along with powdered opium on the very night

when a dish happened to be served which would disguise its taste.

Therefore Simpson becomes eliminated from the case, and our attention turns to Straker and his wife,

the only two people who could have chosen curried mutton for supper that night.

The opium was added after the dish was set aside for the stable boy, since the others had the same for supper with no ill effects.

Which of them, then, had access to that dish without the maid seeing them?

“Then there was the issue of the silence of the dog.

The Simpson incident had shown me that a dog was kept in the stables, and yet, though someone had been in and had fetched out a horse,

that dog had not barked enough to wake the two stable boys. Obviously the midnight visitor was someone whom the dog knew well.

“I was already almost sure that John Straker went down to the stables in the dead of the night and took out Silver Blaze.

For what purpose? For a dishonest one, obviously, or why should he drug his own stable boy? And yet I still had no idea why.

There have been cases before now where trainers have made large amounts of money by betting against their own horses,

through agents, and then preventing them from winning by cheating in some way.

Sometimes the jockey (骑师) is bribed. Sometimes it is some surer and cleverer method. What was it here? I hoped that the contents of his pockets might tell me.

“And they did so. You cannot have forgotten the very unusual knife which was found in the dead man’s hand,

a knife which certainly no sensible man would choose for a weapon.

It was, as Dr. Watson told us, a form of knife which is used for the most delicate operations known in surgery.

And it was to be used for a delicate operation that night.

Colonel Ross, you must know, with your wide experience of horses and racing,

that it is possible to make a slight cut upon the tendons of a horse’s leg, and to do it under the skin, so as to leave absolutely no trace (痕迹) .

A horse so treated would develop a slight lameness, which the owner would put down to a strain in exercise or to joint pain, but never to cheating.”

“Villain (恶棍) !” cried the Colonel.

“We have here the explanation of why John Straker wished to take the horse out on to the moor.

So spirited a creature would have certainly woken the soundest of sleepers when it felt the knife. It was absolutely necessary to do it in the open air.”

“I have been blind!” cried the Colonel. “Of course that was why he needed the candle, and struck the match.”

“Indeed. But in examining his belongings I was fortunate enough to discover not only the method of the crime, but even its motives.

Colonel, you know that men do not carry other people’s bills about in their pockets.

For most of us, it is all we can do to pay our own. I at once decided that Straker was keeping a mistress (情妇) —one who had expensive tastes.

No matter how generous you are with your employees, one can hardly expect that they can afford to buy twenty-pound dresses for their wives.

I questioned Mrs. Straker about the dress without her knowing it, and satisfied myself that it had never reached her.

I made a note of the dress-maker’s address, and felt that by calling there with Straker’s photograph I could easily prove that there was no ‘Derbyshire’.

“From that time on all was plain. Straker had led out the horse to a hollow where his light could not be seen.

Simpson had dropped his tie while escaping in the dark, and Straker had picked it up—with some idea, perhaps, that he might use it in securing the horse’s leg.

Once in the hollow, he had got behind the horse and had struck a light;

but the animal, frightened by the sudden light, and knowing, with the instinct that animals have,

that some mischief (伤害) was intended, had hit out, and the steel shoe had struck Straker full on the forehead.

He had already, in spite of the rain, taken off his overcoat in order to do his delicate task,

and so, as he fell, his knife cut deeply into his thigh. Do I make it clear?”

“Wonderful!” cried the Colonel. “Wonderful! You might have been there!”

“My final shot was, I confess, a very long one.

It struck me that a man as clever as Straker would not try this delicate tendon (肌腱) -nicking (割) without a little practice.

What could he practice on? My eyes fell upon the sheep, and I asked a question which, rather to my surprise, showed that my guess was correct.

“When I returned to London I called on the dress-maker, who had recognized Straker as an excellent customer of the name of Derbyshire,

who had a very beautiful wife with a taste for expensive dresses.

I have no doubt that he was deeply in debt because of this woman, and so was forced into this terrible plot.”

“You have explained all but one thing,” said the Colonel, “Where was the horse?”

“It ran away, and was cared for by one of your neighbors. We must have an amnesty (特赦) in that direction, I think.

If you would like to smoke a cigar in our rooms, Colonel, I shall be happy to give you any other details which might interest you.”