Chapter 8
==============
It was evening before we reached the little town of Tavistock in the middle of the huge circle of Dartmoor.

Two gentlemen were waiting for us at the station— one was a tall man with long hair, a beard, and penetrating light blue eyes;

the other was a small man, very neat and well-dressed. The first was Inspector Gregory,

a man who was rapidly making his name in the English detective service, and the second was Colonel Ross, the owner of Silver Blaze.

“I am delighted that you have come down, Mr. Holmes,” said the Colonel. “The Inspector here has done all that could possibly be suggested,

but I wish to leave no stone unturned in trying to find poor Straker’s murderer and recover my horse.”

“Have there been any fresh developments?” asked Holmes.

“I am sorry to say that we have made very little progress,” said the Inspector.

“We have a carriage outside, and as I am sure you want to see the place before it gets dark, we might talk it over as we drive.”

A minute later we were all seated in a comfortable carriage, traveling quickly through the picturesque (风景如画的) old Devonshire town.

Inspector Gregory poured out a stream of remarks about the case, while Holmes threw in an occasional question or comment.

I listened with interest to the dialog of the two detectives. Gregory was explaining his theory, which was almost exactly what Holmes had said it would be.


“The net is drawn pretty close round Fitzroy Simpson,” he remarked, “and I believe myself that he is our man.

At the same time I recognize that we have no definite proof, and some new development may suggest a different theory.”

“How about Straker’s knife?”

“We have quite come to the conclusion that he wounded himself in his fall.”

“My friend Dr. Watson made that suggestion to me as we came down. If so, that would strengthen the evidence against this man Simpson.”

“Indeed. He has neither a knife nor any sign of a wound. The evidence against him is certainly very strong.

He had a great interest in the disappearance of the favorite.

He is suspected of having poisoned the stable boy, he was undoubtedly out in the storm,

he was armed with a heavy stick, and his tie was found in the dead man’s hand. I really think we have enough to put him on trial.”

Holmes shook his head. “A clever lawyer would tear it all to pieces,” said he.

“Why should he take the horse out of the stable? If he wished to injure it why could he not do it there?

Has a copy of the stable key been found in his possession? What chemist sold him the powdered opium?

And where could he, a stranger to the district, hide a horse, especially such a well-known one?

What is his own explanation of the paper which he wished the maid to give to the stable boy?”

“He says that it was a ten-pound note. One was found in his purse. But your other difficulties are not so formidable as they seem.

He is not a stranger to the district. He has twice stayed at Tavistock in the summer. The opium was probably brought from London.

The key, having served its purpose, would be thrown away. The horse may be at the bottom of one of the pits or old mines upon the moor.”

“What does he say about the tie?”

“He admits that it is his, and that he had lost it. But we now have some new information which may explain his leading the horse from the stable.”

Holmes pricked up his ears.

“We have found traces (足迹) which show that a party of gypsies (吉卜赛人) camped on Monday night within a mile of the scene of the murder.

On Tuesday they were gone. Now, if there was some understanding between Simpson and these gypsies (吉卜赛人) , perhaps the gypsies (吉卜赛人) have the horse now?”

“It is certainly possible.”

“The moor is being closely searched for these gypsies (吉卜赛人) . I have also examined every stable and farm in Tavistock, and for a distance of ten miles around it.”

“There is another training-stable quite close, I understand?”

“Yes, and as Desborough, their horse, was second in the betting, they also have an interest in the disappearance of the favorite.

Silas Brown, the trainer, is known to have made large bets on the race, and he was no friend to poor Straker.

We have, however, examined the stables, and there is nothing to connect him with the affair.”

“And nothing to connect this man Simpson with the interests of the Mapleton stables?”

“Nothing at all.”

A few minutes later our driver stopped in front of a charming little red-brick house.

We all got out except Holmes, who continued to lean back with his eyes fixed upon the sky in front of him, entirely absorbed in his own thoughts.

It was only when I touched his arm that he roused himself and stepped out of the carriage.

“Excuse me,” said he, turning to Colonel Ross, who had looked at him in some surprise. “I was day-dreaming.”

There was a look in his eyes and a suppressed excitement in his manner which convinced me,

who knew him so well, that he had found a clue—though I could not imagine where he had found it.

“Perhaps you would prefer to go at once to the scene of the crime, Mr. Holmes?” said Gregory.

“I think that I should prefer to stay here a little and go into one or two questions of detail. Straker was brought back here, I suppose?”

“Yes; he lies upstairs. The inquest (验尸) is tomorrow.”

“He has worked for you for some years, Colonel Ross?”

“Yes. I have always been very satisfied with his work.”

“I assume you made a list of what he had in his pockets at the time of his death, Inspector?”

“I have the things themselves in the sitting-room, if you would like to see them.”

“Yes, I would.” We all went into the sitting-room and sat round the table

while the Inspector unlocked a square tin box and laid a small heap of things before us.

There was a box of matches, a candle two inches long, a pipe, a packet of tobacco, a silver watch with a gold chain,

five pounds in gold, a pencil-case, a few papers, and a small knife with a very delicate blade marked Weiss & Co., London.

“This is a very unusual knife,” said Holmes, lifting it up and examining it closely.

“I assume, as I see blood-stains upon it, that it is the one which was found in the dead man’s hand.

Watson, as a doctor, perhaps you can tell us more about this knife?”


“It is a very special type of knife, used for eye surgery,” I said.

“I thought so. A very delicate blade designed for very delicate work.

A strange thing for a man to carry with him at night on the moor, especially as it would not shut in his pocket.”

“The blade was protected by a piece of cork which we found beside his body,” said the Inspector.

“His wife tells us that the knife had been on the dressing-table, and that he had picked it up as he left the room.

It was a poor weapon, but perhaps the best that he could find at the moment.”

“Very possible. How about these papers?”

“Three of them are bills from the stable’s hay supplier. One of them is a letter of instructions from Colonel Ross.

This other is a bill from a dress-maker for thirty-seven pounds, made out by Madame Lesurier, of Bond Street, to William Derbyshire.

Mrs. Straker tells us that Derbyshire was a friend of her husband’s, and that occasionally his letters were addressed here.”

“Madame Derbyshire had somewhat expensive tastes,” remarked Holmes, looking at the account.

“Twenty-two pounds is rather a lot for one dress.

However there appears to be nothing more to learn, and we may now go down to the scene of the crime.”

As we left the sitting-room a woman, who had been waiting in the passage, asked the Inspector,

“Have you got them? Have you found them?” Her face was thin and gray with the marks of a recent horror.

“No, Mrs. Straker. But Mr. Holmes here has come from London to help us, and we shall do all that is possible.”

“Surely I met you in Plymouth some time ago, Mrs. Straker?” said Holmes.

“No, sir.”

“Dear me! I could have sworn to it. You wore a dress of white silk decorated with ostrich (鸵鸟) feathers.”

“I never had such a dress, sir,” answered the lady.

“I am sorry. I must have made a mistake,” said Holmes, and followed the Inspector outside.

A short walk across the moor took us to the hollow in which the body had been found.

At the edge of it was the bush upon which the coat had been found.