Chapter 3
=================
Sherlock Holmes and I looked at this short announcement and the sad face behind it,

until the funny side of the affair so completely overwhelmed every other consideration that we both burst out into laughter.


“I cannot see that there is anything very funny,” cried our client, his face turning almost as red as his hair.

“If you can do nothing better than laugh at me, I can go elsewhere.”

“No, no,” cried Holmes, pushing him back into the chair from which he had half risen.

“I really wouldn’t miss your case for the world. It is most refreshingly unusual.

But there is, if you will excuse my saying so, something just a little funny about it.

What did you do when you found the card upon the door?”

“At first I did not know what to do.

Then I asked at the other offices in the building, but none of them seemed to know anything about it.

Finally, I went to the landlord, who is an accountant living on the ground floor,

and I asked him if he could tell me what had become of the Red-headed League.

He said that he had never heard of any such organization.

Then I asked him who Mr. Duncan Ross was. He answered that he did not recognize the name.

“ ‘Well,’ said I, ‘the gentleman at No. 4.’

“ ‘What, the red-headed man?’

“ ‘Yes.’

“ ‘Oh,’ said he, ‘his name is William Morris. He is a lawyer, and was using the room temporarily until his new offices were ready. He moved out yesterday.’

“ ‘Where could I find him?’

“ ‘Oh, at his new offices. He did tell me the address. Yes, 17 King Edward Street, near St. Paul’s.’

“I started off, Mr. Holmes, but when I got to that address it was a small factory making artificial knee-caps, and no one in it had ever heard of either Mr. William Morris or Mr. Duncan Ross.”

“And what did you do then?” asked Holmes.

“I went home to Saxe-Coburg Square, and I took the advice of my assistant.

But he could not help me in any way. He could only say that if I waited I should hear by post.

But that was not quite good enough, Mr. Holmes.

I did not wish to lose such a place without a struggle,

so, as I had heard that you were good enough to give advice to poor people who were in need of it, I came right away to you.”

“And you did very wisely,” said Holmes. “Your case is a very remarkable one, and I shall be happy to look into it.

From what you have told me I think it is possible that more important issues depend on it than are obvious at first sight.”

“Important enough!” said Mr. Jabez Wilson. “I have lost four pounds a week.”

“I do not see that you have any personal reason to complain against this extraordinary league.

On the contrary, you are, as I understand, richer by some 30 pounds,

to say nothing of the detailed knowledge which you have gained on every subject which begins the letter A. You have lost nothing.”

“No, sir. But I want to find out about them, and who they are, and what their object was in playing this joke—if it was a joke—upon me.

It was a pretty expensive joke for them, for it cost them thirty-two pounds.”

“We shall try to clear up these points for you. And, first, one or two questions, Mr. Wilson.

This assistant of yours who first called your attention to the advertisement—how long had he been with you?”

“About a month then.”

“How did he come?”

“In answer to an advertisement.”

“Was he the only applicant?”

“No, I had a dozen.”

“Why did you pick him?”

“Because he was intelligent and would work cheap.”

“At half-wages, in fact.”

“Yes.”

“What is he like, this Vincent Spaulding?”

“Small, solidly built, very quick in his movements, no hair on his face, though he’s at least thirty. Has a white splash of acid upon his forehead.”

Holmes sat up in his chair in considerable excitement. “I thought as much,” said he. “Have you ever noticed that his ears are pierced for earrings?”

“Yes, sir. He told me that a gypsy (吉卜赛) had done it for him when he was a boy.”

“Hum!” said Holmes, sitting back in deep thought. “He is still with you?”

“Oh, yes, sir; I have only just left him.”

“And has your business been well cared for in your absence?”

“Nothing to complain of, sir. There’s never very much to do in the mornings.”

“That will do, Mr. Wilson. I shall be happy to give you an opinion upon the subject in a day or two.

Today is Saturday, and I hope that by Monday we may have found the answer.”

“Well, Watson,” said Holmes when our visitor had left us, “what do you think of it all?”

“I have no idea,” I answered frankly. “It is a most mysterious business.”

“As a rule,” said Holmes, “the stranger a thing is, the less mysterious it proves to be.

It is your normal, average crimes which are really puzzling, just as a normal, average face is the most difficult to identify. But I must act quickly.”

“What are you going to do, then?” I asked.

“To smoke,” he answered. “It is definitely a three pipe problem – please don’t speak to me for fifty minutes.”

He curled himself up in his chair, with his thin knees drawn up close to his long, thin nose,

and there he sat with his eyes closed and his black clay pipe sticking out like the beak (喙) of some strange bird.

I had decided that he had dropped asleep, and indeed was feeling sleepy myself,

when he suddenly sprang out of his chair with the gesture of a man who has made up his mind, and put his pipe down.

“Sarasate plays at the St. James’s Hall this afternoon,” he remarked. “What do you think, Watson? Could your patients spare you for a few hours?”

“I have nothing to do today. My practice is never very absorbing.”

“Then put on your hat and come. I am going through the City first, and we can have some lunch on the way.

I notice that there is a good deal of German music on the programme, which is rather more to my taste than Italian or French.

It is introspective (深刻的) , and I want to introspect (深刻) . Come along!”We travelled by the Underground as far as Aldersgate;

and a short walk took us to Coburg Square, the scene of the strange story which we had listened to that morning.

It was a neglected, out-of-the-way place, where four lines of dirty two-storied brick houses looked out into a small fenced area,

where a lawn of weedy grass and a few sick-looking bushes were trying to survive in the smoky and polluted air.

Three gold-colored balls and a brown board with “JABEZ WILSON” in white letters, on a corner house, announced the place where our red-headed client carried on his business.

Sherlock Holmes stopped in front of it with his head on one side and looked at it closely, his eyes half-closed but shining brightly.

Then he walked slowly up the street, and then down again to the corner, still looking closely at the houses.

Finally he returned to the pawnbroker (典当商) ’s, and, having hit the ground hard with his stick two or three times, he went up to the door and knocked.

It was instantly opened by a bright-looking, clean-shaven young man, who asked him to step in.


“Thank you,” said Holmes, “I only wanted to ask you how you would go from here to the Strand.”

“Third right, fourth left,” answered the assistant quickly, closing the door.

“Smart fellow, that,” observed Holmes as we walked away.

“He is, in my judgment, the fourth smartest man in London, and perhaps the third bravest. I have known something of him before.”

“Obviously,” said I, “Mr. Wilson’s assistant plays an important part in this mystery of the Red-headed League.

I am sure that you asked your way merely in order that you might see him.”

“Not him.”

“What then?”

“The knees of his trousers.”

“And what did you see?”

“What I expected to see.”

“Why did you hit the pavement?”

“My dear doctor, this is a time for observation, not for talk. We are spies in an enemy’s country.

We know something of Saxe-Coburg Square. Let us now explore the parts which lie behind it.”

The road in which we found ourselves as we turned the corner

was as great a contrast to the quiet Saxe-Coburg Square as the front of a picture is to the back.

It was one of the main roads which carry the traffic of the City to the north and west.

The road was blocked with the immense stream of commerce flowing in a double tide inward and outward,

while the footpaths were black with hurrying pedestrians.

It was difficult to realize as we looked at the line of fine shops and high-class businesses that directly behind them was the quiet and neglected square we had just left.

“Let me see,” said Holmes, standing at the corner and glancing along the line, “I should like to remember the order of the houses here.

It is a hobby of mine to have an exact knowledge of London.

There is Mortimer’s, the tobacconist, the little newspaper shop, the Coburg branch of the City and Suburban Bank,

and the Vegetarian Restaurant. And now, Doctor, we’ve done our work, so it’s time we had some play.

A sandwich and a cup of coffee, and then off to violin-land, where all is sweetness and delicacy and harmony,

and there are no red-headed clients to challenge us with their problems.”