Chapter 14
=================
“I have nothing more to say, Mr. Holmes, except that I was angry with my wife that night for having held me back when I might have caught the man.

She said that she was afraid that I might get hurt. I thought for a moment that perhaps what she really feared was that he might get hurt,

for I was sure that she knew who this man was and what he meant by these strange messages.

But the sound of my wife’s voice, Mr. Holmes, and the look in her eyes made me sure that she was indeed thinking of my own safety.

There’s the whole case, and now I want your advice as to what I ought to do.

My own idea is to place a few of my farm workers in the garden, and,

when this fellow comes again, to give him such a beating that he will leave us in peace in future.”

“I fear it is too deep a case for such simple solutions,” said Holmes. “How long can you stay in London?”

“I must go back today to protect my wife. She is very nervous and begged me to come back.”

“You may be right. Meanwhile you will leave me these papers,

and I hope that I shall be able to pay you a visit shortly and to throw some light upon your case.”

Sherlock Holmes kept up his calm professional manner until our visitor had left us,

although it was easy for me, who knew him so well, to see that he was profoundly (极度地) excited.

The moment that Hilton Cubitt’s broad back had disappeared through the door, he rushed to the table,

laid out all the pieces of paper containing dancing men in front of him, and threw himself into a complex calculation.

For two hours I watched him as he covered sheet after sheet of paper with figures and letters,

so completely absorbed in his task that he had obviously forgotten that I was there.

Sometimes he was making progress and whistled and sang at his work;

sometimes he was puzzled, and would sit for long periods with a worried forehead and a blank look.

Finally he sprang from his chair with a cry of satisfaction, and walked up and down the room rubbing his hands together.

Then he wrote and sent a long telegram.

“If my answer to this is as I hope, you will have a very pretty case to add to your collection, Watson,” said he.

“I expect that we shall be able to go down to Norfolk tomorrow, and to take our friend some very definite news about the secret of his problems.”

I was filled with curiosity, but I knew that Holmes liked to share information at his own time and in his own way,

so I waited until he was ready to tell me his conclusions.

But for two long days, during which Holmes jumped up at every ring of the bell, there was no reply to his telegram.

On the evening of the second day a letter finally came from Hilton Cubitt. A long message had appeared that morning upon the sundial (日晷台) .

He enclosed a copy of it, shown here:


Holmes bent over this copy for some minutes, and then suddenly sprang to his feet with an exclamation of surprise and horror.

“We have let this affair go far enough,” said he. “Is there a train to Norfolk tonight?”

I looked up the timetable. The last train had just gone.

“Then we shall breakfast early and take the very first in the morning,” said Holmes.

“Our presence is most urgently needed. Ah! Here is our expected telegram. Please wait a moment, there may be an answer.

This message is just what I expected, and it makes it even more vital that we should not lose an hour in telling Hilton Cubitt how matters stand.

It is a strange and dangerous web in which our simple Norfolk landowner is caught.”

So, indeed, it proved, and as I come to the dark conclusion of a story I experience once again the dismay and horror with which I was filled.

I wish I had some brighter ending to communicate to my readers, but I must tell the truth, and follow this strange chain of events to its tragic end.

When we got off the train and mentioned the name of our destination, the station master hurried at once towards us.

“I suppose that you are the detectives from London?” said he.

A look of annoyance passed over Holmes’s face.

“What makes you think such a thing?”

“Because Inspector Martin from Norwich has just passed through. But maybe you are the doctors.

She’s not dead—or wasn’t, when last we heard. You may be in time to save her yet—only for her to hang for murder.”

Holmes’s face was dark with anxiety.

“We are going to Riding Thorpe Manor,” said he, “but we have heard nothing of what has happened there.”

“It’s a terrible business,” said the station master. “They are shot, both Mr. Hilton Cubitt and his wife. She shot him and then herself—so the servants say.

He’s dead and she is not expected to live. Dear, dear, one of the oldest families in the County of Norfolk, and one of the most honored.”

Without a word Holmes hurried to a carriage, and during the long seven miles’ drive he never opened his mouth.

Seldom have I seen him so depressed and hopeless. He had been uneasy during all our journey from town,

and I had observed that he had looked through the morning papers with anxious attention;

but now this sudden realization of his worst fears left him in a blank melancholy.

At last the North Sea appeared over the green edge of the Norfolk coast, and the driver pointed to a large old house half hidden in a group of trees.

“That’s Riding Thorpe Manor,” said he.

As we drove up to the front door I observed in front of it, beside the tennis-court, the black tool-house and the sundial (日晷台) about which we had heard so much.

A well-dressed little man, with a quick, alert manner, had just got out of his carriage.

He introduced himself as Inspector Martin, of the Norfolk Police, and he was astonished when he heard the name of my companion.

“Mr. Holmes, the crime was only committed at three this morning. How could you hear of it in London and get to the spot as soon as I?”

“I expected it. I came in the hope of preventing it.”

“Then you must have important evidence of which we are ignorant, for they were said to be a very happily-married couple.”

“I have only the evidence of the dancing men,” said Holmes. “I will explain the matter to you later.

Meanwhile, since it is too late to prevent this tragedy,

I am very anxious that I should use the knowledge which I possess in order to make sure that justice is done.

Shall we work together, or will you prefer that I act independently?”

“I should be proud to feel that we were acting together, Mr. Holmes,” said the inspector.

“In that case I would like to hear the evidence and to examine the house at once.”

Inspector Martin had the good sense to allow my friend to do things in his own way, while carefully noting the results.

The local doctor, an old, white-haired man, had just come down from Mrs. Hilton Cubitt’s room, and he reported that her injuries were serious, but not necessarily fatal.

The bullet had passed through the front of her brain, and it would probably be some time before she could regain (恢复) consciousness.

He could not say whether she had been shot or had shot herself. Certainly the bullet had been fired very close to her.

There was only one gun found in the room, from which two shots had been fired. Mr. Hilton Cubitt had been shot through the heart.

It was equally possible that he had shot her and then himself, or that she had been the criminal, for the gun lay upon the floor halfway between them.

“Has he been moved?” asked Holmes.

“We have moved nothing except the lady. We could not leave her lying wounded upon the floor.”

“How long have you been here, doctor?”

“Since four o’clock.”

“Anyone else?”

“Yes, the policeman here.”

“And you have touched nothing?”

“Nothing.”

“You have acted very wisely. Who sent for you?”

“The servant, Saunders.”

“Was it she who sent for the police?”

“She and Mrs. King, the cook.”

“Where are they now?”

“In the kitchen, I believe.”

“Then I think we had better hear their story at once.”

The ancient hall was now turned into a modern detective office. Holmes sat in a large, old-fashioned chair, his all-seeing eyes shining out of his exhausted face.

I could read in them a fixed purpose to devote his life to this case until the client whom he had failed to save should at last be avenged (报仇) .

Inspector Martin, the old, grey-haired country doctor, myself, and a village policeman made up the rest of that strange company.