Chapter 17
=============
We waited in silence for a minute—one of those minutes which one can never forget. Then the door opened and the man stepped in.

In an instant Holmes put a gun to his head and Martin fastened the handcuffs (手铐) around his wrists.

It was all done so swiftly that the man was helpless before he knew that he was being attacked.

He glared from one to the other of us with a pair of blazing black eyes. Then he gave a bitter laugh.


“Well, gentlemen, you have won this time. It was a clever trap.

But I came here in answer to a letter from Mrs. Hilton Cubitt. Don’t tell me that she helped to set a trap for me?”

“Mrs. Hilton Cubitt was seriously injured and is at death’s door.”

The man gave a cry of grief (悲痛) which rang through the house.

“You’re crazy!” he cried, fiercely. “It was he that was hurt, not she. Who would have hurt little Elsie?

I may have threatened her, God forgive me, but I would not have touched a hair of her pretty head. Say that she is not hurt!”

“She was found badly wounded by the side of her dead husband.”

He sank with a deep groan on to the sofa and buried his face in his handcuffed hands.

For five minutes he was silent. Then he raised his face once more, and spoke with the cold calm of despair.

“I have nothing to hide from you, gentlemen,” said he. “If I shot the man, he had his shot at me, and there’s no murder in that.

But if you think I could have hurt that woman, then you don’t know either me or her.

I tell you there was never a man in this world who loved a woman more than I loved her.

I had a right to her. She was promised to me years ago. Why should this Englishman come between us?

I tell you that I had the first right to her, and that I was only claiming what was mine.”

“She broke away from your influence when she found out the kind of man that you are,” said Holmes, sternly.

“She fled from America to avoid you, and she married an honorable gentleman in England. You followed her and made her life miserable.

You tried to make her abandon the husband whom she loved and respected, in order to go with you, whom she feared and hated.

You have caused the death of a good man and driven his wife to kill herself.

That is what you have done, Mr. Abe Slaney, and you will answer for it to the law.”

“If Elsie dies I don’t care what becomes of me,” said the American. He opened one of his hands and looked at a note that he held in it.

“See here, mister,” he cried, with suspicion in his eyes, “you’re not trying to scare me over this, are you?

If the lady is hurt as badly as you say, who was it that wrote this note?” He threw it forwards on to the table.

“I wrote it to bring you here.”

“You wrote it? There was no one on earth outside of our gang who knew the secret of the dancing men. How could you write it?”

“What one man can invent another can discover,” said Holmes. There is a cab coming to take you to Norwich, Mr. Slaney.

But, meanwhile, you have time to undo some of the damage you have done. Did you know that Mrs. Hilton Cubitt is herself suspected of murdering her husband?

The least that you owe her is to make it clear to the whole world that she was in no way, directly or indirectly, responsible for his death.”

“Willingly,” said the American. “I guess the very best case I can make for myself is the absolute truth.”

“It is my duty to warn you that it will be used against you,” cried the inspector, with the magnificent fair play of the British criminal law.

Slaney shrugged his shoulders.

“I’ll take that chance,” he said. “First of all, I want you gentlemen to understand that I have known this lady since she was a child.

There were seven of us in a gang in Chicago, and Elsie’s father was the boss. Old Patrick was a clever man.

It was he who invented that writing, which would look just like a child’s drawings unless you happened to have the key to it.

Well, Elsie learned some of our ways, but she couldn’t stand the business, and she had a bit of honest money of her own, so she escaped to London.

She had been engaged to me, and she would have married me, I believe, if I had taken another profession, but she would have nothing to do with anything criminal.

It was only after her marriage to this Englishman that I was able to find out where she was. I wrote to her, but got no answer.

After that I came over, and, as letters were no use, I put my messages where she could read them.

“I have been here a month now. I lived in that farm, where I had a room down below, and could get in and out every night with no one knowing.

I tried all I could to persuade Elsie to come to me. I knew that she read the messages, for once she wrote an answer under one of them.

Then my temper got the better of me, and I began to threaten her.

She sent me a letter then, begging me to go away and saying that it would break her heart if any scandal should come upon her husband.

She said that she would come down when her husband was asleep at three in the morning,

and speak with me through the end window, if I would go away afterward and leave her in peace.

She came down and brought money with her, trying to bribe me to go.

This made me angry, and I caught her arm and tried to pull her through the window.

At that moment the husband rushed in with his gun in his hand. Elsie had sunk down upon the floor, and we were face to face.

I also had a gun, and I held it up to scare him off and let me get away. He fired and missed me. I fired almost at the same instant, and hit him.  I ran away across the garden, and as I went I heard the window shut behind me.

That’s God’s truth, gentlemen, every word of it, and I heard no more about it until that

boy came riding up with a note which made me walk in here and give myself into your hands.”

A cab had driven up while the American had been talking. Two policemen sat inside. Inspector Martin rose and touched his prisoner on the shoulder.

“It is time for us to go.”

“Can I see her first?”

“No, she is not conscious. Mr. Sherlock Holmes,

I only hope that if ever again I have an important case I shall have the good fortune to have you by my side.”

We stood at the window and watched the cab drive away. As I turned back my eye caught the piece of paper which the prisoner had thrown on the table.

It was the note with which Holmes had tricked him.

“See if you can read it, Watson,” said he, with a smile.

It contained no words, but this little line of dancing men:


“If you use the code which I have explained,” said Holmes, “you will find that it simply means ‘Come here at once.’

I was sure that it was an invitation which he would not refuse, since he could never imagine that it could come from anyone but the lady.

And so, my dear Watson, we have ended by turning the dancing men to good when they have so often been the agents of evil,

and I think that I have kept my promise of giving you something unusual for your notebook.

Three-forty is our train, and we should be back in Baker Street for dinner.”

Only one last word. The American, Abe Slaney, was condemned to death at the trial,

but his penalty was then changed to life in prison because Hilton Cubitt had fired the first shot.

I have heard that Mrs. Hilton Cubitt recovered entirely, and that she still remains a widow,

devoting her whole life to the care of the poor and to the administration of her husband’s property.