Chapter 9
=====================
“Would he not think it too dangerous?”

“Not at all. If my view of the case is correct, this man would rather risk anything than lose the ring.

According to my theory, he dropped it while bent over Drebber’s body, and did not notice it at the time.

After leaving the house he discovered his loss and hurried back, but found the police already in possession, owing to his own foolishness in leaving the candle burning.

He had to pretend to be drunk in order to trick the officer. Now put yourself in that man’s place.

On thinking the matter over, it must have occurred to him that it was possible that he had lost the ring in the road after leaving the house.

What would he do, then?

He would eagerly look out for the evening papers in the hope of seeing it among the list of things lost and found.

His eye, of course, would light upon this.

He would be thrilled. Why should he fear a trap?

There would be no reason in his eyes why the finding of the ring should be linked with the murder.

He would come. He will come. You will see him within an hour.

I have just had an answer to my American message that I sent.

My view of the case is the correct one.”

“And that is?” I asked eagerly.

“Put your pistol in your pocket.

When the fellow comes, speak to him in an ordinary way.

Leave the rest to me.

Don’t frighten him by looking at him too hard.” he remarked.

“It is eight o’clock now,” I said, glancing at my watch.

“Yes. He will probably be here in a few minutes.

Open the door slightly. That will do. Now put the key on the inside. Thank you!”

As he spoke there was a sharp ring at the bell.

Sherlock Holmes rose softly and moved his chair in the direction of the door.

We heard the servant pass along the hall, and the sound of the door as she opened it.

“Does Dr. Watson live here?” asked a clear but rather harsh voice.

We could not hear the servant’s reply, but the door closed, and someone began to climb the stairs.

The steps were uncertain and shuffling (拖曳着的) .

A look of surprise passed over the face of my companion as he listened to it.

It came slowly along the passage, and there was a quiet tap at the door.

“Come in,” I cried.

Instead of the man of violence whom we expected, a very old woman walked into the apartment.

She appeared to be dazzled by the sudden glow of light, and after curtseying to us, she stood blinking at us with her eyes and searching in her pocket with nervous, shaky (颤抖的) fingers.

I glanced at my companion, and his face had such an unhappy expression that it was all I could do to keep myself from laughing.

The old lady pulled out an evening paper, and pointed at our advertisement.

“It’s this that has brought me here, good gentlemen,” she said,curtseying to us again, “a gold wedding ring in the Brixton Road.

It belongs to my girl Sally, who was married last year.

Her husband is an agent aboard a Union boat, and what he’d say if he came home and found her without her ring is more than I can think.

He can be an angry drunk.

She went to the circus last night along with—”


“Is that her ring?” I asked.

“Thank Lord!” cried the old woman, “Sally will be a happy woman this night. That’s the ring.”

“And what may your address be?” I asked, taking up a pencil.

“13, Duncan Street, Houndsditch. A long, tiring way from here.”

“The Brixton Road does not lie between any circus and Houndsditch,” said Sherlock Holmes sharply.

The old woman turned around and looked keenly at him from her little red eyes.

“The gentleman asked me for my address,” she said. “Sally lives at 3, Mayfield Place, Peckham.”

“And your name is—?”

“My name is Sawyer—hers is Dennis, which she took when Tom Dennis married her—”

“Here is your ring, Mrs. Sawyer,” I said, interrupting her, responding to a sign from my companion,

“it obviously belongs to your daughter, and I am glad to be able to return it to the correct owner.”

With many blessings and much gratitude, the old lady put it away in her pocket, and shuffled (拖曳着走) off down the stairs.

Sherlock Holmes sprang to his feet the moment that she was gone and rushed into his room.

He returned in a few seconds wearing a coat and a scarf.

“I’ll follow her,” he said, hurriedly, “she must be an accomplice (同谋) , and will lead me to him. Wait up for me.” The hall door had hardly closed behind our visitor before Holmes had walked down the stair.

Looking through the window I could see her walking along the other side, while her pursuer followed her some little distance behind.

It was almost twelve o’clock before I heard the sharp sound of Holmes opening the door.

The instant he entered I saw by his face that he had not been successful.

“I wouldn’t have the Scotland Yarders know it,” he cried, dropping into his chair,

“I have mocked them so much that they would never have let me hear the end of it.”

“What is it then?” I asked.

“Oh, I don’t mind telling a story against myself.

That lady had gone a little way when she began to limp and show every sign of being tired.

Presently she called a cab which was passing, and said loudly ‘Drive to 13, Duncan Street, Houndsditch.’

Having seen her safely inside, I hung on the back.

I jumped off before we came to the door, and walked down the street.

I saw the cab pull up. The driver jumped down, and I saw him open the door and stand in shock.

No one came out. There was no sign or trace (痕迹) of his passenger.

On inquiring at Number 13, we found that no one of the name either of Sawyer or Dennis had ever been heard of there.”

“You don’t mean to say,” I cried, in shock,

“that that old woman was able to get out of the cab while it was in motion, without either you or the driver seeing her?”

“Old woman be damned!” said Sherlock Holmes, sharply.

“We were fooled by the old woman. It must have been a young man, and a smart one, too, and he must also have been a good actor.

He saw that he was followed, no doubt, and used this means of escaping me.

It shows that the man we are after is not as lonely as I imagined he was.

He has friends who are ready to risk something for him.

Now, Doctor, you are looking tired.

Take my advice and go to bed.” Holmes said to me.

I was certainly feeling very weary, so I obeyed his advice.

I left Holmes seated in front of the fire, and knew that he was still thinking over the strange problem which he had set himself to solve.