Chapter 16
==============
“I think, inspector,” Holmes remarked, “that you would do well to telegraph for more men,

as, if my calculations prove to be correct, you may have a particularly dangerous prisoner to take with you.

The boy who takes this note could no doubt also take your telegram. If there is an afternoon train to town, Watson, I think we should take it,

as I have a chemical analysis of some interest to finish, and this investigation is almost over.”

When the boy had been sent with the note, Sherlock Holmes gave his instructions to the servants.

If any visitor called asking for Mrs. Hilton Cubitt, no information should be given about her condition, but he was to be shown at once into the drawing-room.

He impressed these points upon them with the greatest seriousness.

Finally he led the way into the drawing-room with the remark that the business was now out of our hands.

The doctor had left to care for his patients, and only the inspector and myself remained.

“I think that I can help you to pass an hour in an interesting and useful manner,” said Holmes,

drawing his chair up to the table and spreading out in front of him the various papers upon which the dancing men were drawn.

“As to you, friend Watson, I owe you an apology for having allowed your natural curiosity to remain so long unsatisfied.

Inspector, the whole incident may interest you as a remarkable professional study.

I must tell you first of all the interesting circumstances connected with the previous meetings which Mr. Hilton Cubitt has had with me in Baker Street.”

He then briefly repeated the facts which have already been recorded. “I have here in front of me these very unusual messages,

at which one might smile, if they had not led to so terrible a tragedy.

I am fairly familiar with all forms of secret writings,

and am myself the author of a paper on the subject, in which I analyze one hundred and sixty separate codes;

but I admit that this is entirely new to me. The purpose of those who invented the system was to hide the fact that these characters carry a message,

and to give the idea that they are only meaningless children’s drawings.

“Having once recognized, however, that the symbols stood for letters, and having applied the rules which guide us in all forms of secret writings, the solution was easy enough.

The first message given to me was so short that it was impossible for me to do more than to say with some confidence that the symbol


stood for E. As you know, E is by far the most common letter in the English alphabet, and even in a short sentence one would expect to find it most often.

Out of fifteen symbols in the first message four were the same, so it was reasonable to set this down as E.

It is true that in some cases the figure was bearing a flag and in some cases not,

but it was probable from the distribution of the flags that they were used to break the sentence up into words.

“But now came the real difficulty. The order of the English letters after E is by no means well marked.

Speaking roughly, T, A, O, I, N, S, H, R, D, and L is the order in which letters occur, from most to least common;

but T, A, O, and I are very nearly equally common, and it would be an endless task to try each combination until a meaning was found.

I therefore waited for fresh material. In my second interview with Mr. Hilton Cubitt he was able to give me two other short sentences and one message,

which appeared—since there was no flag— to be a single word.

Here are the symbols. Now, in the single word I have already got the two E’s coming second and fourth in a word of five letters.

It might be ‘sever (切断) ,’ or ‘lever,’ or ‘never.’ ‘Never’ as a reply is by far the most probable,

and the circumstances pointed to its being a reply written by the lady.

Accepting it as correct, we are now able to say that the symbols


stand respectively for N, V, and R. “Even now I was in considerable difficulty, but a happy thought gave me several other letters.

It occurred to me that if these messages came, as I expected, from someone who had known the lady in her early life,

a combination which contained two E’s with three letters between might very well stand for the name ‘ELSIE.’

On examination I found that such a combination ended the message which was three times repeated. It was certainly a message to ‘Elsie.’

In this way I had got my L, S, and I. But what message could it be?

There were only four letters in the word which came before ‘Elsie,’ and it ended in E. Surely the word must be ‘COME.’

I tried all other four letters words ending in E, but could find none that fit.

So now I had C, O, and M, and I was in a position to attack the first message once more,

dividing it into words and putting dots for each symbol which was still unknown.

So treated, it worked out like this:

. M . ERE . . E SL . NE.

“Now the first letter can only be A, which is a most useful discovery, since it occurs no fewer than three times in this short sentence,

and the H is also obvious in the second word. Now it becomes:

AM HERE A . E SLANE.

Or, filling in the obvious gaps in the name:

AM HERE ABE SLANEY.

I had so many letters now that I could move to the second message, which became:

A . ELRI . ES.

Here I could only make sense by putting T and G for the missing letters,

and supposing that the name was that of some house or inn at which the writer was staying.”

Inspector Martin and I listened with the greatest interest to the full and clear explanation of how my friend had produced such a complete solution of the problem.

“What did you do then, sir?” asked the inspector.

“I had every reason to suppose that this Abe Slaney was an American, since Abe is an American short version of the name ‘Abraham’,

and since a letter from America had been the starting-point of all the trouble.

I had also every reason to think that there was some criminal secret in the matter.

The way the lady talked of her past, and her refusal to tell her husband about it, both pointed in that direction.

I therefore sent a telegram to my friend, Wilson Hargreave, of the New York Police Bureau, who has more than once made use of my knowledge of London crime.

I asked him whether the name of Abe Slaney was known to him. Here is his reply: ‘the most dangerous criminal in Chicago.’

On the very evening upon which I had his answer, Hilton Cubitt sent me the last message from Slaney. Filling in the known letters, it took this form:

ELSIE .RE.ARE TO MEET THY GO.

The addition of a P and a D completed a message which showed me that this dangerous criminal was proceeding from persuasion to threats,

and my knowledge of the criminals of Chicago prepared me to find that he might very rapidly put his words into action.

I at once came to Norfolk with my friend and colleague, Dr. Watson, but, unhappily, only in time to find that the worst had already occurred.”

“It is a privilege to be associated with you in the handling of a case,” said the inspector, warmly. “You will excuse me, however, if I speak frankly to you.

You are only responsible for yourself, but I have my job to do. If this Abe Slaney is indeed the murderer,

and he has escaped while I am sitting here, I will certainly get into serious trouble.”

“You need not worry. He will not try to escape.”

“How do you know?”

“To escape would be a confession of guilt.”

“Then let us go to arrest him.”

“I expect him here very soon indeed.”

“But why should he come?”

“Because I have written and asked him.”

“But this is incredible, Mr. Holmes! Why should he come just because you have asked him? I would think he would be more likely to leave as soon as possible!”

“It all depends on exactly how the letter is written,” said Sherlock Holmes. “In fact, I believe the gentleman himself is now coming up the path.”

A man was walking up the path to the door. He was a tall, handsome man in a gray suit, with a thick black beard and a large, hooked nose.

He walked proudly up the path as if the place belonged to him, and we heard his loud, confident ring at the bell.

“I think, gentlemen,” said Holmes, quietly, “that we had best take up our position behind the door.

We must be very careful with a man like this. Inspector Martin, you will need your handcuffs (手铐) . You can leave the talking to me.”