Chapter 19
================
“You can understand from what I say that my poor sister Julia and I had no great pleasure in our lives.

No servants would stay with us, and for a long time we did all the work of the house.

She was only thirty at the time of her death, and yet her hair had already begun to turn white, just as mine has.”

“Your sister is dead, then?”

“She died just two years ago, and it is of her death that I wish to speak to you.

You can understand that, living the life which I have described, we were not likely to see anyone of our own age and position.

We had, however, an aunt, my mother’s unmarried sister, Miss Honoria Westphail, who lives near Harrow, and we were occasionally allowed to visit her.

Julia went there at Christmas two years ago, and met a retired army officer, to whom she became engaged.

My stepfather (继父) learned of the engagement when my sister returned, and offered no objection to the marriage,

but two weeks before the wedding, the terrible event occurred which has deprived me of my only companion.”

Sherlock Holmes looked closely at our visitor, and said, “Please continue, and be precise as to details.”

“It is easy for me to be precise, for every event of that terrible time is burned into my memory.

The house is very old, as I have already said, and only one wing is now lived in.

The bedrooms in this wing are on the ground floor, the sitting-rooms being in the central block of the buildings.

The first of these bedrooms is Dr. Roylott’s, the second is my sister’s, and the third is my own.

There are no doors between them, but they all open onto the same passage. Do I make myself clear?”

“Perfectly.”

“The windows of the three rooms open out upon the lawn.

That night Dr. Roylott had gone to his room early, though we knew that he had not gone to bed,

for my sister was bothered by the smell of the strong cigars that he smokes.

So she left her room and came into mine, where she sat for some time, talking about her approaching wedding.

At eleven o’clock she rose to leave me, but she paused at the door and looked back.

“ ‘Tell me, Helen,’ said she, ‘have you ever heard anyone whistle in the dead of the night?’

“ ‘Never,’ said I.

“ ‘I suppose that you could not possibly whistle, yourself, in your sleep?’

“ ‘Certainly not. But why?’

“ ‘Because during the last few nights I have heard a low, clear whistle at about three in the morning.

I am a light sleeper, and it has awakened me. I cannot tell where it came from—perhaps from the next room, perhaps from the lawn.

I thought that I would just ask you whether you had heard it.’

“ ‘No, I heard nothing—but then, I sleep more heavily than you.’

“ ‘Well, it does not matter, anyway.’ She smiled back at me, closed my door, and a few moments later I heard her key turn in the lock.”

“I could not sleep that night. A vague feeling of coming misfortune impressed me.

My sister and I were twins, and you know how subtle are the links which bind two souls so closely joined. It was a wild night.

The wind was howling outside, and the rain was beating against the windows. Suddenly, louder than the storm, I heard the wild scream of a terrified woman.

I knew that it was my sister’s voice. I sprang from my bed and rushed into the passage.

As I opened my door I seemed to hear a low whistle, such as my sister described,

and a few moments later a sound like two metal objects being banged together.

As I ran down the passage, my sister’s door was open. I stared at it with horror, not knowing what was about to come out of it.

By the light of the lamp in the passage I saw my sister appear at the opening,

her face white with terror, her hands reaching for help, her whole body looking as if it were about to fall.

I ran to her and threw my arms round her, but at that moment her knees seemed to give way and she fell to the ground in terrible pain.

At first I thought she did not recognize me, but as I bent over her she suddenly screamed in a voice which I shall never forget,

‘Oh, my God! Helen! It was the band! The speckled (花彩) band!’

There was something else which she wanted desperately to say,

and she pointed with her finger into the air in the direction of the doctor’s room, but she could not speak the words.

I rushed out, calling loudly for my stepfather (继父) , and I met him hurrying from his room in his dressing-gown.

When he reached my sister’s side she was unconscious, and though he sent for medical aid from the village,

all efforts were useless, for she slowly sank and died without having recovered consciousness. Such was the terrible end of my beloved sister.”


“One moment,” said Holmes, “are you sure about this whistle and metallic sound? Could you swear to it?”

“It is my strong impression that I heard them, and yet, among all the sounds of the storm, I might possibly have been mistaken.”

“Was your sister dressed?”

“No, she was in her night-dress. In her right hand was found the burnt remains of a match, and in her left a match-box.”

“Showing that she had struck a light and looked around when the alarm took place.

That is important. And what conclusions did the official report of the death come to?”

“They looked into the case with great care, for Dr. Roylott’s strange and violent behavior was well-known, but without being able to find any satisfactory cause of death.

My evidence showed that my sister would always very careful indeed to fasten her door from the inside when going to bed,

and the windows were blocked by old-fashioned shutters with broad iron bars, which were secured every night.

The walls were carefully examined, and were shown to be quite solid all round, and the floor was also thoroughly examined, with the same result.

The chimney is wide, but is barred up by four large iron bars. It is certain, therefore, that my sister was quite alone when she met her end.

Besides, there were no marks of any violence upon her.”

“How about poison?”

“The doctors examined her for it, but without success.”

“What do you think your sister died of, then?”

“I believe that she died of pure fear and nervous shock, though what it was that frightened her I cannot imagine.”

“Ah, and what did you gather from the fact that your sister mentioned a band—a speckled (花彩) band?”

“I am sorry, Mr. Holmes, but I am afraid I really have no suggestion to offer. I merely report her words.”

Holmes shook his head like a man who is far from being satisfied.

“These are very deep waters,” said he; “please go on with your story.”

“Two years have passed since then, and my life has been until lately lonelier than ever.

A month ago, however, a dear friend, whom I have known for many years, has asked me to marry him.

His name is Percy Armitage. My stepfather (继父) did not object to the marriage, and we are to be married this spring.

Two days ago some repairs were started in my room,

so that I have had to move into the room in which my sister died, and to sleep in the same bed in which she slept.

Imagine, then, my terror when last night, as I lay awake, thinking over her terrible fate, I suddenly heard,

in the silence of the night, the low whistle which I had heard just before my sister’s death.

I sprang up and lit the lamp, but nothing was to be seen in the room.

I was too terrified to go to bed again, however, so I dressed, and as soon as it was daylight I slipped down,

got a dog-cart at the Crown Inn, drove to Leatherhead, and took the train to see you and ask for your advice.”

“You have done wisely,” said my friend. “But have you told me everything?”

“Yes, everything.”

“Miss Roylott, you have not. You are protecting your stepfather (继父) .”

“What do you mean?”

In answer, Holmes pushed back the sleeve that covered our visitor’s arm.

There were five dark-red spots on her white wrist, the marks of four fingers and a thumb.

“You have been cruelly treated,” said Holmes.

The lady blushed deeply and covered over her injured wrist. “He is a powerful man,” she said, “and perhaps he does not know his own strength.”

There was a long silence as Holmes stared into the fire.

“This is a very deep business,” he said at last.

“There are a thousand details I would like to know before I decide what we should do, yet we do not have a moment to lose.

If we came to Stoke Moran today, could we examine these rooms without your stepfather (继父) knowing?”

“He said he was coming into town today on some most important business. He will probably be away all day.

We have a servant, but she is old and foolish, and I could easily get her out of the way.”

“Excellent. Could you come with me, Watson?”

“Of course.”

“Then we shall both come. You may expect us early in the afternoon. Will you not stay and have breakfast?”

“No, I must go. My heart is lightened already since I have told my trouble to you.

I shall look forward to seeing you again this afternoon.” She dropped her thick black veil over her face and silently left from the room.