Chapter 12
=================
Holmes had been seated for some hours in silence with his long, thin back bent over a test-tube in which he was boiling a particularly nasty-smelling liquid.

He looked from my point of view like a strange, tall, thin bird, with dull gray feathers and a black patch on top.

“So, Watson,” said he, suddenly, “you do not plan to buy South African stocks?”

I was astonished. Accustomed as I was to Holmes’s unusual abilities, this sudden intrusion (侵入) into my most private thoughts was completely impossible for me to explain.

“How on earth do you know that?” I asked.

He turned round in his chair, with a steaming test-tube in his hand and a look of amusement in his eyes.

“Now, Watson, admit that you are totally astonished,” said he.

“I am.”

“I ought to make you sign a paper to that effect.”

“Why?”

“Because in five minutes you will say that it is all absurdly simple.”

“I am sure that I shall say nothing of the kind.”

“You see, my dear Watson” —he put his test-tube back and began to lecture with the air of a professor addressing his class—

“it is not really difficult to construct a series of logical inferences, each dependent upon the ones before it and each simple in itself.

If one then simply leaves out all inferences in the middle and presents one’s audience with the starting-point and the conclusion,

one may produce a startling (令人吃惊的) , though cheap and showy (哗众取宠) , effect.

By looking at the space between your left forefinger and thumb,

it was not really difficult to be sure that you do NOT intend to invest your small savings in South African gold mines.”

“I see no connection.”

“Very likely not, but I can quickly show you the connection. Here are the missing links of the very simple chain:

1.You had chalk between your left forefinger and thumb when you returned from the club last night.

2. You put chalk there when you play billiards (台球) .

3. You never play billiards (台球) except with Thurston.

4. You told me four weeks ago that Thurston had an option on some South African stocks which would expire (期满) in a month, and which he wanted you to share with him.

5. Your chequebook is locked in my drawer, and you have not asked for the key. 6. You do not intend to invest your money in this way.”

“How absurdly simple!” I cried.

“Quite so!” said he, a little irritated. “Every problem becomes very simple when once it is explained to you.

Here is an unexplained one. See what you can make of that, friend Watson.”

He threw a sheet of paper upon the table and turned once more to his chemical analysis.

I looked with amazement at the absurd marks upon the paper.

“Holmes, it is a child’s drawing!” I cried.

“You think so?”

“What else could it be?”

“That is what Mr. Hilton Cubitt, of Riding Thorpe Manor, Norfolk, is very anxious to know.

This little puzzle came by the first post, and he was to follow by the next train. There’s a ring at the bell, Watson—it is probably Mr. Cubitt.”

A heavy step was heard upon the stairs, and in a moment a tall, clean-shaven gentleman came in,

whose clear eyes and reddish cheeks told of a life led far from the fogs of Baker Street.

He seemed to bring the smell of fresh air with him as he entered. Having shaken hands with each of us,

he was about to sit down when he saw the paper with the strange marks, which I had just examined and left upon the table.


“Well, Mr. Holmes, what do you make of these?” he cried. “They told me that you were fond of queer mysteries,

and I don’t think you can find a queerer one than that.

I sent the paper on ahead so that you might have time to study it before I came.”

“It is certainly unusual,” said Holmes. “At first sight it would appear to be a childish trick.

It consists of a number of absurd little figures dancing across the paper. Why do you think it might be important?”

“I don’t, Mr. Holmes. But my wife does. It is frightening her to death.

She says nothing, but I can see terror in her eyes. That’s why I want to explore the matter to the bottom.”

Holmes held up the paper so that the sunlight shone fully upon it.

It was a page torn from a notebook. The markings were done in pencil, and looked like this:


Holmes examined the paper for some time, and then, folding it carefully, he placed it in his notebook.

“This promises to be a most interesting and unusual case,” said he.

“You gave me a few details in your letter, Mr. Hilton Cubitt,

but I should appreciate it if you would please go over it all again for the benefit of my friend, Dr. Watson.”

“I’m not much good at telling stories,” said our visitor, nervously.

“Please just ask me anything that I don’t make clear. I’ll begin at the time of my marriage last year.

I want to say first of all that, though I’m not a rich man, my ancestors have been at Riding Thorpe for over five centuries,

and there is no better-known family in the County of Norfolk.

Last year I came up to London for the Jubilee, and I stayed at a hotel in Russell Square.

There was a young American lady staying there called Elsie Patrick.

I stayed in London for a month, and before that time was over I was as much in love with her as a man could be.

We got married quietly, and then returned to Norfolk.

You’ll think it very strange, Mr. Holmes, that a man of a good old family should marry a wife like this,

knowing nothing of her past or of her family, but if you saw her and knew her you would understand.

“Elsie was very honest, and gave me every chance to change my mind.

‘I have had some very unpleasant experiences in my life,’ said she; ‘I wish to forget all about them.

If you take me, Hilton, you will take a woman who has nothing that she needs to be personally ashamed of;

but you will have to accept my word for it, and to allow me to be silent about all that happened to me before we first met.

If these conditions are too hard, then go back to Norfolk and leave me to the lonely life in which you found me.’

It was only the day before our wedding that she said these words to me.

I told her that I was happy to accept her conditions, and I have kept my promise.

“We have been happily married now for a year. But about a month ago, at the end of June, I saw the first signs of trouble.

One day my wife received a letter with an American stamp. She turned deadly white, read the letter, and threw it into the fire.

She said nothing about it afterward, and neither did I, because I had given her my promise, but since then,

there is always a look of fear upon her face—a look as if she were waiting and expecting.

She would do better to trust me. She would find that I was her best friend. But until she speaks I can say nothing.

She is a truthful woman, Mr. Holmes, and whatever trouble there may have been in her past life it has been no fault of hers.

I am only a simple Norfolk landowner, but there is not a man in England who values his family honor more highly than I do.

She knows it well, and she knew it well before she married me. She would never bring any stain upon it—of that I am sure.