Chapter 13
===============
“Well, now I come to the strange part of my story.

Last Tuesday morning I found a number of little dancing figures, like these upon the paper, drawn with chalk on one of the windowsills.

I thought the boy who looks after the horses must have drawn them, but he swore he knew nothing about it.

I had them washed away, and I only mentioned the matter to my wife afterward.

To my surprise she took it very seriously, and begged me, if any more came, to let her see them.

None did come for a week, and then yesterday morning I found this paper lying on the sundial (日晷台) in the garden.

I showed it to Elsie, and she dropped down in a faint. Since then she has looked like a woman in a dream, with terror always behind every look.

It was then that I wrote and sent the paper to you, Mr. Holmes.

I could not take it to the police, because they would only laugh at me, but you will tell me what to do.

I am not a rich man, but if there is any danger threatening my wife I would spend all I have to protect her.”

He was a fine creature, simple, straight, and gentle, with his great, earnest blue eyes and broad, handsome face.

His love for his wife and his trust in her shone in his face.

Holmes had listened to his story with the greatest attention, and now he sat for some time in silent thought.

“Don’t you think, Mr. Cubitt,” he said at last, “that your best plan would be to ask your wife directly to share her secret with you?”

Hilton Cubitt shook his head.

“A promise is a promise, Mr. Holmes. If Elsie wanted to tell me she would.

If not, it would not be right for me to force her. But I am free to act on my own—and I will.”

“Then I will help you with all my heart. Firstly, have you heard of any strangers being seen in your neighborhood?”

“No.”

“It is a very quiet place. Any fresh face would cause comment?”

“In the immediate neighborhood, yes. But we have several small towns not very far away. And the farmers take in paying guests.”

“These marks obviously have a meaning. If it is a purely random one, it may be impossible for us to solve it.

If, on the other hand, there is some system behind them, I have no doubt that we shall find it.

But this particular example is so short that I can do nothing, and the facts which you have brought me are not definite enough for me to start an investigation.

I would suggest that you return to Norfolk, that you watch carefully for anything unusual, and that you take an exact copy of any fresh dancing men which may appear.

It is very unfortunate that we do not have a copy of those which were done in chalk upon the windowsill (窗台) .

Also, please ask if any strangers have been seen in the neighborhood. When you have collected some fresh evidence, come to me again.

That is the best advice which I can give you, Mr. Hilton Cubitt.

If there are any urgent new developments, I am always ready to come and see you at your Norfolk home.”

The interview left Sherlock Holmes very thoughtful, and several times in the next few days I saw him take the piece of paper

from his notebook and look long and carefully at the curious figures upon it.

He said nothing of the affair, however, until one afternoon about two weeks later, when Holmes said to me:


“Watson, I had a telegram from Hilton Cubitt this morning—you remember Hilton Cubitt, of the dancing men?

He was to reach Liverpool Street railway station at one-twenty. He may be here at any moment.

I understand from his telegram that there have been some new incidents of importance.”

We did not have long to wait, for the Norfolk landowner came straight from the station as fast as a cab could bring him.

He was looking worried and anxious, with tired eyes and a lined forehead.

“It’s getting on my nerves, this business, Mr. Holmes,” said he, as he sank, exhausted, into an armchair.

“It’s bad enough to feel that you are surrounded by unseen people who have some kind of design upon you,

but when you also know that it is slowly killing your wife, then it becomes more than flesh and blood can stand.

She’s wearing away under it—just wearing away before my eyes.”

“Has she said anything yet?”

“No, Mr. Holmes, she has not. But there have been times when the poor girl has wanted to speak, and yet could not quite bring herself to take the plunge.

I have tried to help her; but I think I did it clumsily, and scared her.

She has spoken about my family, and our reputation, and I always felt she was getting to the point but somehow she never quite got there.”

“But you have found out something for yourself?”

“A good deal, Mr. Holmes. I have several fresh dancing men pictures for you to examine, and, what is more important, I have seen the fellow.”

“What, the man who draws them?”

“Yes, I saw him at his work. But I will tell you everything in order.

When I got back after my visit to you, the very first thing I saw the next morning was a fresh group of dancing men.

They had been drawn in chalk on the black wooden door of the tool-house. I made an exact copy, and here it is.”

He unfolded a paper and laid it upon the table. Here is a copy of the figures:


Excellent!” said Holmes. “Excellent! Please continue.”

“When I had taken the copy I erased the figures, but two mornings later a fresh set had appeared. I have a copy of it here”:


Holmes rubbed his hands together with delight.

“We are getting more and more material to work with,” he said.

“Three days later a message, drawn on a sheet of paper, was placed under a stone on the sundial (日晷台) . Here it is.

The characters are, as you see, exactly the same as the last one. After that I determined to lie in wait;

so I got out my gun and I sat up in my study, which overlooks the lawn and garden.

About two in the morning I was seated by the window, in the dark except for the moonlight outside,

when I heard steps behind me, and there was my wife in her dressing-gown.

She begged me to come to bed. I told her frankly that I wished to see who it was who played such tricks upon us.

She answered that it was some senseless practical joke, and that I should not take any notice of it.

“ ‘If it really annoys you, Hilton, we might go and travel, you and I, and so avoid this nuisance.’

“ ‘What, be driven out of our own house by a practical joker?’ said I. ‘We should have all our neighbors laughing at us.’

“ ‘Well, come to bed,’ she said, ‘and we can discuss it in the morning.’

“Suddenly, as she spoke, I saw her white face grow even whiter in the moonlight, and her hand tightened upon my shoulder.

Something was moving in the shadow of the tool-house. I saw a dark figure which crawled round the corner and stopped in front of the door.

I was rushing out with my gun in my hand, when my wife threw her arms round me and held me back with all her strength.

I tried to escape her, but she held on to me most desperately. At last I got away, but by the time I had opened the door the man was gone.

He had left something behind, however, for there on the door was the very same arrangement of dancing men which had already twice appeared,

and which I have copied on that paper.

There was no other sign of the man anywhere, though I looked all over the grounds.

And yet the amazing thing is that he must have been there all the time,

for when I examined the door again in the morning he had drawn some more of his figures under the line which I had already seen.”


“Do you have that last drawing?”

“Yes. It is very short, but I made a copy of it, and here it is.”

Again he produced a paper. The new dance was in this form:


“Tell me,” said Holmes—and I could see by his eyes that he was very excited—“was this added to the first, or did it appear to be entirely separate?”

“It was on a different part of the door.”

“Excellent! This is very important to know. Now, Mr. Hilton Cubitt, please continue your most interesting statement.”