Chapter 18
===============
On glancing over my notes of the seventy or more cases in which I have studied the methods of my friend Sherlock Holmes during the last eight years,

I find many tragic, some amusing, a large number merely strange, but none ordinary.

Working as he did rather for the love of his art than for money,

he refused to take on any case which did not tend towards the unusual, and even the fantastic.

Of all these cases, however, I cannot remember any stranger case than that of the well-known Surrey family, the Roylotts of Stoke Moran.

These events happened early in my life with Holmes, when we were sharing rooms in Baker Street.

I would have described them before, but a promise of secrecy was made at the time,

and I have only just been freed from that promise by the early death of the lady to whom the promise was given.

It may be useful to explain what happened now, for there are many stories told about the death of Dr. Grimesby Roylott that are even more terrible than the truth.

It was early April in the year 1883 when I woke one morning to find Sherlock Holmes standing, fully dressed,

by the side of my bed. He usually got up late, and as the clock showed that was only a quarter past seven,

I looked up at him in some surprise, and perhaps just a little resentment, for I was myself regular in my habits.

“Very sorry to wake you, Watson,” said he, “but you are not the only one to be woken early.

Mrs. Hudson has been woken up, she then woke me up, and I woke you.”

“What is it, then—a fire?”

“No, a client. A young lady has arrived, clearly very upset, who insists upon seeing me. She is waiting now in the sitting-room.

Now, when young ladies wander about the city at this early hour, and wake sleepy people up out of their beds, they must have something very urgent to say.

If it should turn out to be an interesting case, you would, I am sure, wish to follow it from the beginning.

I thought, least, that I should call you and give you the chance.”

“My dear fellow, I would not miss it for anything.”

I had no greater pleasure than following Holmes in his cases, and in admiring the rapid deductions (推论) , as swift as intuitions,

and yet always with a logical basis, with which he solved the problems which were submitted to him.

I rapidly threw on my clothes and was ready in a few minutes to accompany my friend down to the sitting-room.

A lady dressed in black and heavily veiled, who had been sitting by the window, rose as we entered.

“Good morning, madam,” said Holmes. “My name is Sherlock Holmes.

This is my close friend and associate, Dr. Watson, before whom you can speak as freely as before myself.

I am glad to see that Mrs. Hudson has had the good sense to light the fire.

Please sit by it, and I shall order you a cup of hot coffee, for I see that you are shivering.”

“It is not cold which makes me shiver,” said the woman in a low voice, moving closer to the fire nevertheless.

“What, then?”

“It is fear, Mr. Holmes. It is terror.” She raised her veil as she spoke, and we could see that she was indeed in terrible fear,

her face all drawn and gray, with restless frightened eyes, like those of some hunted animal.

Her face and figure were those of a woman of thirty, but her hair had already gone partly gray, and her expression was exhausted and care-worn.

Sherlock Holmes ran her over with one of his quick glances that took in everything.

“Do not fear. We shall soon set matters right. You have come by train this morning, I see.”

“You know me, then?”

“No, but I observe the second half of a return ticket in your left glove.

You must have started early, and yet you had a long drive in a dog-cart, along muddy roads, before you reached the station.”

The lady stared at my companion, astonished.


“There is no mystery,” said he, smiling. “There are seven spots of mud that I can see on the left arm of your jacket, all perfectly fresh.

The only vehicle that throws up mud in that way is a dog-cart, and then only when you sit on the left hand side of the driver.”

“Whatever your reasons may be, you are perfectly correct,” said she.

“I started from home before six, reached Leatherhead station at twenty past, and came in by the first train to Waterloo. Sir, I can stand this no longer.

There is only one person in the world who cares for me, and he cannot help me now.

I have heard of you, Mr. Holmes, from Mrs. Farintosh, whom you helped in the hour of her need. It was from her that I had your address.

Do you not think that you could help me, too? At present I cannot reward you for your services, but in a month or six weeks I shall be married,

with the control of my own income, and then at least you shall not find me ungrateful.”

Holmes unlocked his desk, drew out a small casebook (案例记录簿) , and consulted it.

“Farintosh,” said he. “Ah yes, I remember the case—I managed to recover her stolen jewels.

I can only say, madam, that I shall be happy to devote the same care to your case as I did to that of your friend.

As to reward, my profession is its own reward; but I would appreciate it if you could pay back whatever expenses I may have, at the time which suits you best.

And now, please explain as clearly as you can the situation with which you want my help.”

“Part of the horror of my situation lies in the fact I am not even sure exactly what I need to be afraid of,

and my suspicions depend upon such small details that even my own fiancé does not seem to fully believe me.

But I have heard, Mr. Holmes, that you can see deeply into all the types of evil in the human heart.

Please advise me what to do, surrounded as I am by dangers on every side.”

“Please continue, madam.”

“My name is Helen Stoner, and I am living with my stepfather (继父) ,

who is the last survivor of one of the oldest families in England, the Roylotts of Stoke Moran, in Surrey.”

Holmes nodded his head. “I know the name,” he said.

“The family was once one of the richest in England, and their lands extended beyond Surrey into Berkshire in the north,

and Hampshire in the west. In the last century, however, most of the family’s wealth was lost through gambling.

All that was left was a few acres of land, and a two-hundred-year-old house with a large mortgage.

The previous owner lived a terrible and desperately poor life there, but his only son, my stepfather (继父) , seeing that he must adapt himself to the new conditions,

borrowed money from a relative, took a medical degree, and went out to India.

There, by his professional skill and his force of character, he established a large practice.

In a fit of anger, however, caused by some robberies at his house, he beat his native servant to death and only just escaped the death penalty.

He spent a long time in prison, and afterwards returned to England a disappointed man.

“When Dr. Roylott was in India he married my mother, Mrs. Stoner, the young widow of Major-General Stoner, of the British army in India.

My sister Julia and I were twins, and we were only two years old at the time of my mother’s remarriage.

She had a considerable sum (总数) of money—not less than 1,000 pounds a year—and this she gave to Dr. Roylott,

with a provision that a certain amount of money per year should be allowed to each of her daughters if we got married.

Shortly after our return to England my mother died—she was killed eight years ago in a railway accident near Crewe.

Dr. Roylott then abandoned his attempts to establish himself in practice in London, and took us to live with him in the old house at Stoke Moran.

The money which my mother had left was enough for all our wants, and there seemed to be nothing to prevent us from being happy.

“But a terrible change came over our stepfather (继父) about this time. Instead of making friends and exchanging visits with our neighbors,

who had at first been very happy to see a Roylott of Stoke Moran back in the old family home,

he shut himself up in his house and rarely came out except to start fierce quarrels with anyone he met.

All the men of the family have tended to be violent, and in my stepfather (继父) ’s case I believe that

his problem had been made worse by his having lived such a long time in the heat of India.

A series of disgraceful (丢脸的) public fights took place, two of which ended in the police-court,

until at last he became the terror of the village, and the folks would run away at his approach,

for he is a man of enormous strength, and absolutely uncontrollable in his anger.

“Last week he threw the local blacksmith off a bridge into a river, and it was only by paying over all the money

which I could gather together that I was able to avoid another public scandal.