Chapter 15
================
The two women told their story clearly enough.

They had been woken from their sleep by the sound of an explosion, which had been followed a minute later by a second one.

Mrs. King had rushed in to Saunders’ room. Together they had come down the stairs. The door of the study was open and a candle was burning on the table.

Their master lay upon his face in the center of the room. He was quite dead. Near the window his wife was lying, her head leaning against the wall.

She was horribly wounded, and the side of her face was red with blood. She breathed heavily, but was not able to say anything.

The passage, as well as the room, was full of smoke and the smell of gunpowder (火药) . The window was certainly shut and fastened upon the inside.

Both women were sure of that. They had sent at once for the doctor and for the police.

Then, with the help of the other servants, they had carried their injured mistress (女主人) to her room.

Both she and her husband had slept in the bed. She was wearing her dress—he was in his dressing-gown, over his night clothes.

Nothing had been moved in the study. So far as they knew, there had never been any quarrel between husband and wife.

They had always thought of them as a very happy couple.

These were the main points of the servants’ evidence.

In answer to Inspector Martin, they were clear that all the doors were fastened on the inside, and that no one could have escaped from the house.

In answer to Holmes, they both remembered that they noticed the smell of gunpowder (火药) from the moment that they ran out of their rooms upon the top floor.

“That is a very important point,” said Holmes to his professional colleague. “And now I think that we can thoroughly examine the study.”

It was a small room, lined with books on three sides, with a writing-table which looked out through a window onto the garden.

We first examined the body of the unfortunate landowner, which lay stretched across the room. His disordered dress showed that he had been suddenly woken from sleep.

The bullet had been fired at him from the front, and had remained in his body after going through the heart. His death had certainly been immediate and painless.

There were no marks of gunpowder (火药) either on his dressing-gown or on his hands.

According to the country doctor the lady had marks of gunpowder (火药) upon her face, but none upon her hands.


“The absence of gunpowder (火药) marks on her hands means nothing, though its presence might mean everything,” said Holmes.

“Unless the gunpowder (火药) from a badly-fitting cartridge (子弹) happens to spurt (喷射) backwards, one may fire many shots without leaving a sign.

I would suggest that Mr. Cubitt’s body may now be removed. I suppose, doctor, you have not recovered the bullet which wounded the lady?”

“A serious operation will be necessary before that can be done. But there are still four cartridges (子弹) in the gun.

Two have been fired, causing two wounds, so we know where each of the bullets went.”

“So it would seem,” said Holmes. “Perhaps you can explain the bullet which has so obviously struck the edge of the window?”

He had turned suddenly, and his long, thin finger was pointing to a hole through the lower window frame about an inch above the bottom.

“How did you see that?” cried the inspector.

“Because I was looking for it.”

“Wonderful!” said the country doctor. “You are certainly right, sir. Then a third shot has been fired, and therefore a third person must have been present.

But who could that have been and how could he have got away?”

“That is the problem which we are now about to solve,” said Sherlock Holmes.

“You remember, Inspector Martin, when the servants said that on leaving their room they noticed a smell of gunpowder (火药) ,

and I remarked that the point was an extremely important one?”

“Yes, sir; but I must admit that I did not quite follow you.”

“At the time of the firing, the window as well as the door of the room must have been open.

Otherwise the smell of gunpowder (火药) could not have been blown so rapidly through the house. Both door and window were only open for a very short time, however.”

“How can you prove that?”

“Because the wax has not run down the candle.”

“Wonderful!” cried the inspector.

“Feeling sure that the window had been open at the time of the tragedy, I thought that there might have been a third person in the affair,

who stood outside this opening and fired through it.

Any shot directed at this person might hit the window frame. I looked, and there was the bullet mark!”

“But why was the window shut and fastened?”

“The woman’s first instinct would be to shut and fasten the window. Here—what is this?”

It was a lady’s handbag which stood upon the study table—an expensive one.

Holmes opened it and turned the contents out. There were twenty fifty-pound notes, held together by a rubber band—nothing else.

“This must be kept, for use at the trial,” said Holmes, as he handed the bag with its contents to the inspector.

“We should now try to throw some light upon this third bullet.

It has clearly been fired from inside the room, as we can see from the fragmented edge of the wood.

I should like to see Mrs. King, the cook, again. You said, Mrs. King, that you were woken by a loud explosion.

When you said that, did you mean that it seemed to you to be louder than the second one?”

“Well, sir, it woke me from my sleep, and so it is hard to judge. But it did seem very loud.”

“You don’t think that it might have been two shots fired almost at the same instant?”

“I am sure I couldn’t say, sir.”

“I believe that it was so. I rather think, Inspector Martin, that we have now learned all that this room can teach us.

If you will kindly walk outside with me, we shall see what fresh evidence the garden has to offer.”

A flower-bed extended up to the window. Someone had stepped on the flowers, and the soft soil was covered with footmarks.

They were the feet of a large man, with long, sharp toes. Holmes hunted about among the grass and leaves like a dog chasing a wounded bird.

Then, with a cry of satisfaction, he bent forward and picked up a little metal cylinder.


“I thought so,” said he “Here is the third cartridge (子弹) . I really think, Inspector Martin, that our case is almost complete.”

The inspector’s face showed his amazement at the rapid and masterful progress of Holmes’s investigation.

At first he had wanted to take the lead as the official police representative, but now he was filled with admiration and ready to follow without question wherever Holmes led.

“Whom do you suspect?” he asked.

“I’ll go into that later. There are several points in this problem which I have not been able to explain to you yet.

Now that I have got so far I had better continue on my own lines, and then clear the whole matter up once and for all.”

“Just as you wish, Mr. Holmes, so long as we get our man.”

“I have no desire to make mysteries, but it is impossible at the moment of action to give long and complex explanations.

I have the threads of this affair all in my hand. Even if this lady should never recover consciousness,

we can still prove what happened last night and make sure that justice is done.

First of all, I wish to know whether there is any hotel or farm nearby known as ‘Elrige’s’?”

The servants were questioned, but none of them had heard of such a place.

The boy who looked after the horses threw a light upon the matter by remembering

that a farmer of that name lived some miles away in the direction of East Ruston.

“Is it a lonely farm?”

“Very lonely, sir.”

“Perhaps they have not heard yet of all that happened here during the night?”

“Perhaps not, sir.”

Holmes thought for a little and then a curious smile played over his face.

“Prepare a horse,” said he. “I shall want you to take a note to Elrige’s Farm.”

He took from his pocket the various pieces of paper with the dancing men. With these in front of him he worked for some time at the table in the study.

Finally he handed a note to the boy, telling to put it into the hands of the person to whom it was addressed,

and especially to answer no questions of any sort which might be asked of him.

I saw the outside of the note, addressed in irregular writing, very unlike Holmes’s usual, very neat, handwriting.

It was addressed to Mr. Abe Slaney, Elrige’s Farm, East Ruston, Norfolk.